HARVARD 
COLLEGE 
LIBRARY 



I 



• 



DEMOCRACY IN AMERICA. 



BY 



ALEXIS DE rOC^UEVILLE. 



TRANSLATED BY 



HENRY REEVE, Esq 



EDITED, WITH NOTES, 

THB TSANSLATION REVISED AND IN GRKAT PART REMTRITTEN, AND TUB ADDITIONS 
VADK TO THE RECENT PARIS EDITIONS NOW FIRST TRANSLATED, 

By FRANCIS BOWEN, 

ALFORD PROFESSOR OF MORAL PHILOSOPHY IN HARVARD UNTVXRSITY. 



VOL. I. 



FOURTH EDITION. 



CAMBRIDGE: 
SEVER AND FRANCIS. 



• 



U-.'b 



^ A 



.« 




^A.&amp;n\^ ^Ll £lÀ^ 






Moltnd aooordtng to Aot of Ooùifptm^ in tht year 1SG2. bv 

John Bartlett, 

bi Um Ctork^f Offlee of tht District Court of the District of MasMchnsetts. 



UNITERaiTY Prkms: 
WiLOB,, BlOILOW, AIID GOMrAVT, 

Cambmidoe 



1 &gt;•■ 



'J • 



PREFACE 



OF THE AMERICAN EDITOR. 



THE present publication has been made to con- 
form as nearly as possible to the twelfth 
edition of the original work, the latest which 
appeared at Paris under the direct supervision 
of the author. De Tocqueville appended to this 
edition, published in 1850, his essay, written three 
years before, for the Academy of the Moral and 
Political Sciences, on Democracy in Switzerland ; a 
full report of his remarkable Speech in the Cham- 
ber of Deputies predicting the Revolution of 1848 
just a month before its occurrence ; and a feel- 
ing and eloquent Advertisement, addressed to his 
countrymen, pointing them to the example of the 
United States, and urging the study of American 
institutions as affording the most instructive les- 
sons for the organization and conduct of the new 
French republic. These three additions are here 
for the first time translated, both because they 
have an intimate connection with the body of the 
work, and because they reflect much light upon 
the character and opinions of the writer towards 
the close of his life. The first of them is specially 
interesting to American readers, as it contains an 
able analysis and criticism of the republican in- 
stitutions of Switzerland, illustrated by îïec\v\^w\» 



IT XDITOR'S FBEFACE. 

compnrison with the conatitutions and lawB of the 
American republics. 

The writer's confidence in the ultimate succeas 
and peaceful estnblishment of democracy, ae the 
controlling principle in the government of all 
nations, iseenis to have been not only not impaired, 
but strengthened, in the latter part of his life, by 
the observations which he continued to make of 
the trial that it was undergoing in the United 
States, and of the progress and prosperity of this 
country in the years subsequent to the first pub- 
lication of his great work. And if his life had 
been spared to witness the terrible ordeal to 
which the providence of God is now subjecting 
us, it may confidently be believed that this trust 
on his part would not have been shaken, even if 
he should have been compelled to admit, that the 
Federal tie which once bound our large family of 
democratic States together would probably never 
be reunited. He would clearly Iiave seen, what 
most of the politicians of Europe seem at present 
incapable of perceiving, that it is not representa- 
tive democracy, but the Federal principle, which 
is now on trial, and that the only question is, 
whether any bond is strong enough to hold to- 
getlier a confederacy so populous and extensive 
as to form in the aggregate the largest and most 
powerful empire that the world ha» ever known. 
He who would attempt to make up his own opin- 
ion on this great question can find no better gui&lt;le 
than in the present work. De Tocquevillc is the 
friend, but by no means the indiscriminate eulo- 
gist, of American institutions; and his criticisms, 
which are shrewd and searching, ought to be oven 
more welcome than his commendations, for they 
Ere more instructive. He foresaw, if not the im- 



EDITOB*S PREFACE. V 

■ 

mmence, at least the probability, of tbe great 
convulsion which the country is now undergo- 
ing ; and there can be no clearer indication of 
the causes which have at last induced it, than 
that which was made by this wise and impartial 
foreigner nearly thirty years ago. 

The notes which I have made, though some- 
what numerous, are generally very brief They 
are notes, and not disquisitions, my object being 
only to elucidate or correct the text, and not to 
controvert or supplement it by foisting my own 
opinions upon the reader's notice. Most of them 
are only corrections of slight errors on points of 
detail, such as a stranger who made but a short 
stay in the country could not be expected to 
avoid, or notices that some statements now re- 
quire to be limited or modified, in consequence 
of the changes that have taken place during thé 
last quarter of a century. An outline sketch of 
De Tocqueville's life is designed only to satisfy 
curiosity as to the chief points in his career, with- 
out entering into any analysis of his character 
and labors. Those who seek further information 
can obtain it from the Memoirs and Correspondence 
that have recently been published by his life-long 
friend, M. de Beaumont. 

In accepting an invitation to become the editor 
of this work, I supposed that it would only be 
necessary for me to translate the new matter that 
had been appended to the recent editions of the 
original, and to supply such brief annotations as a 
careful revision of the text might show to be ne- 
cessary. It was intended to furnish an exact re- 
print of the English translation, which passed to a 
second edition in London, a year ago, under the 
respectable name of Mr. Henry Reeve. Bv\\, î^. 



LWI7 



ijaî&lt; recently been made in an E 

ical. wIj^hj thei'e can be no .-u-j'ici'jn 

ind verbose, and too often obscure an 
t. On comparing every line of it vritl 
il, the alterations which were found t 
ary were so numerous and sweeping, 
)s the present edition, of the first volun 
night more fitly be called a new transk 
m amended one. The second velum 
to say, is somewhat better done ; as it 
[led several years after the appearance 
st, forming in fkct a distinct work, the tr 
had found time to increase his familia 
he French language, and even to make 6&lt; 
ss in his knowledge of English, 
is plain speaking, and I feel bound to 
it, by offering some specimens of the tr 
both in its primitive and its amended st 
lowing extracts are taken almost at ran&lt; 
le body of the book, and the original is 
3 facilitiit^ 4^v&gt;/^ i-»^ 



EDITOirS PBEFACE. tu 

Detant «u l'abaissent les barriËret qni empritoon aient la BOciA£ an m^ dt 
laquelle ilt sont né»; les vieilles opinions, qui depain de» siècles dirigcaiwt 
le monde, s'^vanonissent ; noe carriÈre presque sKns bornes, un champ aans 
boriion le décooTre : l'esprit humain s'y précipite ; il les parcourt en tons 
sens ; mais, airijé aox limites da monde politique, il s'arrête de lui-m£me ; 
il dépose en tremblant l'osage de ses plus redoutables TacuMs ; il abjur« I« 
doQte; il renonce an besoin d'innoTer; il s'abstient même de Boulever la 
Toile da ianctiuire; il l'incline avec leipecl devant du rérilds qu'il admet 
■ans les discater. — p. S3. 



BeETb'H TaiNSLlTIOK. 

Il might be imagined (hat men «ho 
sacriBcra their friends, their familj, 
and their native land to a relij^ioos 
conriction. wei« absorbed in the pur- 
suit of the intellectaal adrnntages 
which they purchased at so dear a 
rate. The energy, however, with 
which they - .. 



ealth, c 



enjoymi 



One would think that men who had 
sacrificed their friends, their family, 
and their native land to a nrligioai 
conviction would be wholly absorbed 
in the pursnit of the lrea»are which 
they hod just purchased al so high a 
price. And yet we find ihem seeking 
with nearly equal zeal Tor maloriu 
wealth and moral good. — for well- 
being and freedom on earth, and sal- 
vation in heaven. They moulded and 
altered at pleasure all polilieul prin- 
ciples, and all human laws and msli- 
tuttons ; they broke ilown the barrien 
of the society in which they were 
bom ; they disregarded the old prin- 
ciples whicli hnd governed the world 
for apw : a career ivillioul tiounds, a 
field without a horiion, was opened 
before them : they prcci[iitnle them- 
selves into it, and trnvcrjie it in every 
direction. But, having reached the 
limits of the political norld, they stop 
of their own accord, and lay a'ida 
with awe the use of their most formi- 
dable fuculties ; they no longer doubt 
or innovate; Ihcy abstain from rais- 
ing even the veil of the sanetuary, 
and bow with submissive respert lie- 
foro trutha which thoy admit without 



and the comforts 
of the world, is scarcely inferior to 
thai with which they devoted them» 
lelves to Heaven, 

Political principles, and all human 
laws and institutions were moulded 
and altered at their pleasure ; the 
barriers of the society in which they 
were horn were broken down before 
Uiem ; the old principles which had 
governed the world for ages were no 
more ; a path without a term, and a 
field without an horiion were opened 
to the exploring and ardent curiosity 
of man : but ai the limits of the po- 
litical world he checks his researches, 
he diiicrccily lays aside the use of hia 
most formid'ablo faculties, he no longer 

can^fnlly abstamin|r from raisînfr the 
curtain of the sanctuary, he yields 
with submissive respect to truths 
which he will not disscnss. — p. 33. 



Che« tea petites nations, I'mil de la soci(!ié pénètre pnrtout ; l'esprit 
d'amélioration descend jnsqne dans les moindres détails : l'ambition do peu- 
ple étant fort tempérée par sa faiblesse, ses efforts et ses ressources se tour- 
nent presque entièrement vers son bien-être intérieur, et no sont point sujeta 
k se dissiper en vaine fumée do (tloire. De plus, les facultés de rhaenn 7 
étant généraleraenl bornées, les désirs le sont également. Lu médiocrité des 
fcrtanes y rend les conditions k peu près éi,'alcs ; los mœnrs 5 oui Miie aWiTO 
simple et paisible. AJmi, à tout prendre et en faisant ëtiil des dWen 4e{tfA 



tOnOVS FBXrACK 



DiAïulniMBl dm hi petite* natioia 
(nnqûlUif que efaei hi giuidM. — 



Bxnua TxuriuTitnr. 
In imall natet, tha wBCchfnbieM 
if iociMj peartniM into oTeiy pw^ 
jid the spirit at împravetnent enun 
nto the mullut dclaik; the unU- 



tamed to ôe Jnierntl well-beinë of 
tbe corarami^. Mid am not Uk^ U 
er^iorate in the fleeting bnath of 
glorj. The powin of eTcrr indirid- 
nal being genenllj limitrd, his de- 
thct are proportionallj iniilL He- 
diocrii^ (rf tbrlnne nuke» ihe vuioiu 



for Ihe Tarions doRreca of morality 
"hnd Cnli)thti;niiiïn[, wc shnll (tenprally 
tind in snmll nnlions more ense, popo- 
lalioD, and tratiquillily than in larp 



de monfilé et de Inmifcre, on 

plu d'aiunce, de popnlatiaa et de 

p. 190. 

Reeve's TRiagi.i.nc». 
In iroftll nfttiona Ihe ecntttnf cf 
iociely jwneiraitB inlo e»erj part, 
and Iho ipirit of improrement enten 
into the moit iriflint; ditaili ; u tbe 
ambition of ttie jifople ie ntceiiarily 
checked hj its weakneH, ail Ihe ef- 
foru and mourcca of the cidtaai an 
lumrd to the internai benelit of the 
commanity, and are not likol» to 
cviipomio in [he fleeting breath of 
ginrj. The dïoin;» of ertry indtTld- 
nal are limited, lifcanie extiaordinan 
farntiiea are rarely to be met with. 
The (tifia of an equal fortune render 
tlic variuni conditionB of life uniform ) 
and the mannen of tlio inhabitant! 
are orderly and limple. Thns, if one 
«Dtimale the gmdationi of popnlor 
tnoraticr and cn1it;litcnmcnt, we fUM 
generally find ihut in small nations 
mere arc more persons in easy Hr- 

lution, and a mure tranquil Etate of 
aoeiely, llian in great empires. — p. 
IT6. 



On ne rencontrera jamais, qtioi qn'on fasse, de Ti^rilable puissance parmi 
les hommes, que dans le conroors libre des rolonK^s. Or, il n'y a au monde 
qnu le palriolismc, ou la religion, qui puisse fuire marcher pendant long- 
temps vers un mCmo but l'unlversalitif des citoyens. 

Il ne difpeod pas des lois de ranimer des croyanre' qui t'fteignvnt ; mail 
il dë|)end des lois d'int(!resser les hommes an^ deftim^e; de lear pays. H 
dépend des lois de nfreiller el de diriger cel insiinel Ta^uc de la pairie qui 
D'abandonné jamais le ccenr de l'homme, et, en le liant aux pensives, aux 
passions, aua hubtiudes de chaque jour, d'en faire un seniinicnt réfléchi et 
duralile. Kt qu'on ne dise point qu'il eal trop uni pour le tenter ; les na- 
tions ne vieillissent point de la mtlme manière que les hommes. Chaque 
gentfralion qui naît duns leur sein est comme un peuple nouveau qui vient 
a'olTrir &amp; la main du le'gialalcur. — pp. 113, 114. 

Reeve's Teajiblatio». Revised Tbakbijitioh. 

Whatever exertions may be made. Do what you may. (here is no true 
no true power ran be raunilcd amoni; power nmont; men exi'cpt in ibc five 
men which does not drpcnd upon Ibe union of their will; and pnlriods^ or 
(rre union of llicir inclinations; and rclipion are llie only (wo motives in 
patriotism or rclinion ate Iho only tbe world ivliicli can long nme all tha 
tra rnorlre» in ihe world which can people towards tbe same end. 



EDITOB'S PREFACE- 



IX 



permanently direct the whole of a 
body politic to one end. 

Laws cannot succeed in rekindling 
the ardor of an extin^iished faith ; 
bat men may be interested in the fate 
of their country by the laws. By this 
influence, the vague impulse of pa- 
triotism, which never abandons the 
human heart, may be directed and 
revived ; and if it be connected with 
the thoujuchts, the passions, and the 
daily habits of life, it may be consoli- 
dated into a durable and rational sen- 
timent. Let it not be said that the 
time for the experiment is already 
past ; for the old age of nations is 
not like the old age of men, and 
every fresh generation is a new peo- 
pie ready for the care of the legis- 
Luor. — p. 95. 



Laws cannot rekindle an ex tin- 
gnished faith ; hut men, may be in- 
terested by the laws in the fate of 
their country. It depends upon the 
laws to awaken and direct the vague 
impulse of patriotism, which never 
abandons the human heart ; and if it 
be connected with the thoughts, the 
passions, and the daily habits of life, 
it may be consolidate&lt;i into a durable 
and rational sentiment. Let it not Ite 
said that it is too late to make the 
experiment ; for nations do not grow 
old as men do, and every fresh gen- 
eration is a new people ready for the 
care of the legislator. — p. 118. 



La commune, prise en masse et par rapport au gouvernement central, 
n'est qu'un individu comme un autre, auquel s^appiique la théorie que je 
Tiens d'indiquer. 

La liberté communale découle donc, aux États-Uni^, du dogme même 
de la souveraineté du peuple ; toutes les républiques américaines ont plus ou 
moins reconnu cette indépendance ; mais chez les peuples do la Nouvelle- 
Angleterre, les circonstances en ont particulièrement favorisé le développe 
ment. 

Dans cette partie de l'Union, la vie politique a pris naissance au sein 
même des communes ; on pourrait presque dire qu'a son origine chacune 
d'elles était une nation indé))endante. Lorsque ensuite les rois d'Angleterre 
réclamèrent leur part de la souveraineté, ils se bornèrent à prendre la puis- 
sance centrale. Ils laissèrent la commune dans l'état où ils la trouvèrent ; 
maintenant les communes de la Nouvelle-Angleterre sont sujettes ; mais 
dans le principe elles ne l'étaient point ou l'étaient à peine. Klles n'ont donc 
pas reçu leurs pouvoirs; ce sont elles au contraire qui semblent s'être des- 
taissies, en faveur de l'État, d'une portion de leur indépendance : distinction 
importante, et qui doit rester présente à l'esprit du lecteur. 

Les communes ne sont en général soumises à l'État que quand il s'agit 
d'un intérêt que j'appellerai social, c'est-k-dire qu'elles partagent avec d'autres. 
Pour tout ce qui n'a rapport qu'à elles seules, les communes sont restées des 
corps indépendants ; et parmi les habitants de la Nouvelle-Angleterre, il ne 
s'en rencontre aucun, je pense, qui reconnaisse au gouvernement de l'État le 
droit dUntervenir dans la direction des intérêts purement communaux. 

On voit donc les communes de la Nouvelle-Angleterre vendre et acheter, 

attaquer et se défendre devant les tribunaux, charger leur budget ou le 

d^rever, sans qu'aucune autorité administrative quelconque songe à s'y 

opposer. 

a* 



X EDITOira ÎBEFACE. 

Quant anx deroin M«'uas, allsi loiit laiiMi d'j latliMra. Ain)), rlW 
util bciom d'arfrent, 1&gt; eommaiM n'est pu libre di lui accorder on ds loi 

moitreEso d? lui fvnner ion territoire. Fai^iI nn njglement de police, U 
cuirmone doîl t'ex&amp;nter. Vent-îl orginiicr l'iastniction tar on plan nni- 

fonne dans toute l'étendtu da pajt, la comoiDne «al tanne de el^kt le* 
érolei Tonlnei par la loi. — pp. 77, 78. 

BBEvx'a TBAHai.«TiOK. BnnSED Tkakuatiov. 

The township, lalien m a «hole, The township, taken h a whole, 

and in relmion lo ihe government of and in relntion Co the central |rovoni&gt; 

tlte rountr.T, may be looked npon ai menl, ii on]; an fndiridnn] lilie any 

an iniliviilnal to wlium the theonr I other to wbom the throty I have jant 

have just uiludi-il to i( applied. Mu- dcacribed is applicable. Mnnicipal 

nii-ipal indopendcnce i&gt; Ihereftire a independence in the United State* in, 

nmural coneequenre of tlie principle Ihercrore, a natnral conacqnenre of 

iif lh*&gt; Boverei|-nlT of the people in thia verr principle of the KDveri'iiïnty 

the Unitvil ^latcii : all the American of the iieople. All the American re- 

n'publics recojinize it more or leei ; pulili» rciogniui ic mon; or U-t» ; bat 

hnt drcumitnncei have peculiarlv rircumFianrcs bave peeiiliarly fiivored 

fuvorcd ill BTOwth in New Enijlanii. its tjrowlli in Kcw Eujrland. 

In thin purl of ihe Union, the im- In thi* part of the Union, political 
pulfinn of giolirical aclivilr wan civcn life ha« ils origin in the townships ; 
in the lownship!) ; ami il may almost and it mar almost he said that each 
he said that eacli of ihem oricinally of thctn oriitinaltv formi'il en indc- 
formed an independent nation. When pendent nation. When ibc kinjr» of 
the kin)^ of Knglund aaserlcd their Eii);Und oflera'ardi ai&gt;Bcrted their 
auprcinacy, they were contented to «aprcmacy, ihey were content lo at- 
assume the central power of the State. Bnme the central power of [be State. 
The township» of New EnijUnil re- They left the townnbips where they 
mained as they were before ; and aU were before ; and alihon[;h ther nra 
llionj;h tbev are now anhjecl to tlie now sniiject to the Slate, they weiu 
Suite, they 'were at first Btarccly de- not nt flrsl, or were iiardly so. They 
pendent upon it. It i« important to did not receive their power» from itio 
remember that they have not been central autborilv.biit,on the coiilrari-, 
invetted with privilc)^!, hnl that they tlioy (;uvc up a portion of thrir lode- 
have, on itie eontrary. fiitrcitcil a por- pendence to Ibc State. I'his ia an 
tionof theirindepenciencclotlie Sintc. important distinction, and ono which 
The townships are only subordinate the reader inuat constantly nt-otlrct. 
lo Ihe State in tboae interests wliii'h The townships nrc iteiu-rnlly Fuliordi- 
I shall term tofial, as they are com- nate lo ibo Stale onlv in those inter- 
mon to nil tliu citinns. Ther are esta which I elialt term MnW, as they 
indi-pendeni in all [bnl cnncemt ibcm- aru ivminon to nil tite others. They 
i-clvrs ; anil ainoiif.^t the inhnbllnnls aie inde[&gt;endent in all thai conrvms 
iif Xew Knyland I believe ibiit not a themselves uliinc ; and amontcst the 
man is to be found who would nc- inlmbilaiits of New Enj^lund 1 lirlieve 
knowledt.ra thai the State has any that not a man is to he fotind who 
riaht to interfere in their local inU'f- would aeknowleiljie tbiil the State 
ests. The towni of New Knclund has any rii;ht li&gt; inlerfero in thcil 
buy and sell, prosccuteoraruindieted, town nftiiirx. The tiiwns nt New 
•ogmentor diminish their ralea. with- GnjtlHnd buy and sell, prosecute or 
out the eli^ihlett upgiositlon on the are indieteil, augment or iliminish 
part of the adminislratiru authority their rules, and no admin istralivc an- 
of tha State. thority ever thinks uf olTerinf any 

They an bound, however, to com- Dp]io»ition. 






EDITOR'S PREFACE. 



ply with the demands of the comma- 
pitv. If the State is in need of money, 
a town can neither give nor withhold 
the supplies. If the State projects a 
road, the township cannot refuse to 
let it cross its territory ; if a police 
regulation is made by the State, it 
must be enforced by the town. A 
uniform system of instruction is orga- 
nized all over the country, and every 
town is bound to establish the schools 
which the law ordains. — pp. 60, 61. 



There are certain social duties, 
however, which they are bound to 
fulfil. If the State is in need of 
money, a town cannot withhold the 
supplies ; if the State projects a road, 
the township cannot refuse to let it 
cross its territory ; if a police regula- 
tion is made by the State, it must be 
enforced by the town ; if a uniform 
system of public instruction is enact* 
ed, every town is bound to establish 
the s&lt;'hools which the law ordains. — 
pp. 80, 81. 



D'une autre part, je doute fort qu'un vêtement particulier porte les 
hommes publics à se respecter eux-mêmes, quand ils ne sont pas natn- 
xellement di8pos&lt;ls k le faire ; car je ne saurais croire qu'ils aient plus d'&lt;^gard 
pour leur habit que pour leur personne. 

Quand je vois, parmi nous, certains magistrats brusquer les parties ou 
leur adresser des bons mots, lever les épaules aux moyens de la défense et 
sourire avec complaisance à l'énumération des charge"*, je voudrais qu'on 
essayât de leur ôtcr leur robe, afin de découvrir si, se trouvant vêtus comme 
les simples citoyens, cela ne les rappellerait pas à la dignité naturelle de 
l'espèce humaine. 

Aucun des fonctionnaires publics des États-Unis n'a de costume, mais 
tons reçoivent un salaire. 

Ceci découle, plus naturellement encore que ce qui précède, des prin- 
cipes démocratiques. Une démocratie peut environner do pompe ses ma- 
gistrats et les couvrir de soie et d'or sans attaquer directement le principe 
de son existence. De pareils privilèges sont passagers ; ils tiennent à la 
place, et non à l'homme. Mais établir des fonctions gratuites, c'est créer 
une classe de fonctionnaires riches et indépendants, c'est former le noyau 
d'une aristocratie. Si le peuple conserve encore le droit du choix, l'exercice 
de ce droit a donc des bornes nécessaires. 

Quand on voit une république démocratiqne rendre gratuites les fonc- 
tions rétribuées, je croîs qu'on peut en conclure qu'elle marche vers la 
monarchie. Et quand une monarchie commence à rétribuer les fonctions 
gratuites, c'est la marque assurée qu'on s'avance vers un état despotique ou 
vers un état républicain. — pp. 245, 246. 



Reete's Tranblatiok. 

On the other hand, it is very doubt- 
ful whether a peculiar dress contrib- 
ntes to the respect which public clmr- 
actcrs ought to have for their own 
position, at least when they are not 
otherwise inclined to respect it When 
a magistrate (and in France such 
inatances are not rare^ indalges his 



Revised Translation. 

On the other hand, it is very doubt- 
ful whether a peculiar dress induces 
pul)lic men to respect themselves, 
when thcv are not othen\'ise inclined 
to do 80. When a magistrate (and 
in France such instances are not rare) 
snubs the parties before him, ot In- 
dulges his wit at iVieit «ixp^iTv^^^ ot 



SI SDITOB^ FBEFACE. 

triTial vit at Ihe cxpenie of tha prit- ihragf hii ihonldcn tt their plui of 
oner, or duridua tlie prcdicamenl in defunn, or smilca complacentlj ai 
which a culpril i» plaaii], it would lie the chuvea *it enumerated, I nbonid 
well lo deprive him of hii robea of lika to doprin him of hii robei uf 
office, 10 seo whether ho would recall office, to aee whether, when he ii re- 
tome portion of the n&amp;taral dignity dnced to the garb of a prirate cilizen, 
of muiikiiid when lio is tcduced to tM be would not recall loaie portion of 
apparel iif a prinile citizen. tlie natoral digoitj of mankind. 

A demoenii']' miiv, however, allow No pnblic officer in the United 

a certxln xhow of mnitisterial pomp, Statea ha« an official costume, but 

and clothe its ofKccrs in »ilk&gt; and even one of them receivea ■ wlarr. 

Kold, without ncriouily compromiiins; And (hit, also, iliil more Datarally 

lis principleii. I'rivilcinu of thia kind than what precedes, remits from dem- 

are transi tor v ; ihoy bclotifc to the oeratie principle*. A democracj maj 

place, nnd are dintimt from the indi- allow nome magisteriBl pomp, and 

TÎdual : bat if public officer! are not clothe its offleera in liike anil gold, 

noiformlv remunerated by the Stale, without aeriouslj compromisinE ita 

the public chnrgm must DO intrusted principle!. PriTilef^orthiskiud «re 

to men uf opniriire and independence, iranaitorj ; they belong lo ihe place, 

who constitute the basia of an aria- aud not to the man : but if public 

locracy ; and if the people still retains offlcen are unpaid, a class of rich 

it! ri|;hi of cleclion, Ihut election can and independent public fuaciionaricl 

only be made from a certain daaa of will be created, who will conittitule 

citiu'ns. the basis of an aristocracv ; and if 

When a democratic republic ren- the people still retain tbcir riubt of 

dcis office! wliic'ii bad formerly been eloclion, the choice cnn he m«de only 

t«munerHlC(l, i;ralaitDus, it may safely from a, certain cliiin of citiiens. 

be believed that that state ia'adran- When a democratic republic ren- 

cing to monarchical institution! ; and den gratuitous offices which hod for- 

when a monarchy be);in' lo remanvr- merly been remunerated, it may safely 

ale such uRivers at luid hillierto been be inferred that the state U ndvancinj; 

unpaid, it is a sure Bi);n that it is towards monarchy. And when a 

approaching towartU tt despotic or a monarchy becins lo rcmunorale such 

"■- - ' — -' offiier» aa Iniil liilherlo been nnpnid, 

it is a dure sign llml it is «pprtmuhing 
a despotic or a repuhliian form of 
government. — pp. 263, 264. 

Ce qu'ils apercei-aicnt d'abord, c'est que le conseil d'Etal, en Fmnce. 
Aant un grand tribunal fixé au centre du royaume, il y avait une sorte de 
tyrannie à renvoyer pnîliminaiiement devant lui tous le! plaignants. — 
p. 136. 

Rebve'b Tkanslatiou. Betibkd Translatiox. 

ThcT were at once led lo conclude They at onco perceived that, the 

that lliB Conseil d'Etat in I'raneo was Council of State in Franco iH'iti); a 

a (treat tribunal, eelalilislieil in the grvHt tribunal rstabli^beil in llio cen- 

cenlre of the kinedom. which oxer- tre of the kincdom. it v&amp;i a sort of 

cised a preliminary and somewhat tyranny to send all complainants be- 

tyrannical jurisdiction in all political fore it as a preliminary step. — p. 131. 
oiuies. — p. 108. 

Les penplcs cnire eux ne sont que de* indivEdui. Ceil anrtout poor 
parattro avec avantage vis-^-vit des âtnngen qu'une nation a bcaoin d'an 
toaremoaieat naiqac, — pp. 137, I3S. 



■■V* 



c- -~ ■ ■ . -"i ■ . ■.: . .- 



EDITOB'S PBEFACE. xiH 

Hsbyb's Tkanslation. Revised Translation. 

The external relations of a people The people in themselves are only 

may be compared to those of private individuals ; and the special reason 

individoals, and they cannot be ad- why they need to be united under 

Yiuitageoasly maintained without the one government is, that they may 

agency of the single head of a Got- tfppear to advantage before foreiga- 

emment. — p. 121. ers. — p. 144. 



n y a des gens en France qui considèrent les institutions républicaine! 
comme Tinstrument passager de leur grandeur. Ils mesurent des yeux 
l'espace immense qui 8&lt;^paro leurs vices et leurs misères de la puissance 
et des richesses, et ils voudraient entasser des ruines dans cet abîme pour 
essayer de le combler. Ceux-là sont à la liberté ce que les compagnies 
franches du moyen âge étaient aux rois ; ils font la guerre pour leur propre 
compte, alors même qu'ils portent ses couleurs : la république vivra toujours 
assez longtemps pour les tirer de leur bassesse présente. Ce n'est pas à eux 
que je parle. — p. 356. 

Keeve's Translation. Revised Translation. 

There are persons in France who There are persons in France who 
look upon republican institutions as a look upon republican institutions only 
temporary means of power, of wealth, as a means of obtaining grandeur; 
and distinction ; men who are the they measure the immense space 
condottieri of liberty, and who fight which separates their vices and mis- 
for their own advantage, whatever be cry from power and riches, and they 
the colors they wear : it is not to aim to fill up this gulf with ruins, 
these that I address myself. — p. 364. that they may pass over it. These 

men are the condottieri of liberty, and 
fijjht for their own advantage, what- 
ever l)e the colors they wear. The 
republic will stand long enough, they 
think, to draw them up out of their 
present degradation. It is not to 
tliese tha^ I address myself. — p. 393. 



Perhaps it is not too much to say of a work 
which has hitherto been before the English and 
American public only in such a translation as this, 
that it still remains to be perused by them for 
the first time in a form in which it can be under- 
stood and appreciated. I have bestowed a good 
deal of labor upon it, in the hope of aiding the 
circulation of a book of which it has been justly 
said by the highest living authority on the science 
of general politics, Mr. John Stuart Mill, that it&gt; \a 



XIV XDITOVB PBEFAOE. 

"such as Montesquieu might have written, if to 
hiâ genius lie had superadded good- sense, and the 
lights which mankind have since gained from the 
experiences of a period in which thej maj be said 
to have lived centuries in fifty years." Specially 
ought it to be generally studied here in the United 
States, where no thinking man who exercises the 
privileges of a voter can fail to derive from it 
profitable information respecting the nature of the 
institutions under which he lives, together with 
friendly framings abd wise counsels to aid him in 
the proper discharge of his poUtical duties. 

ClMBRIDOB, August S, ISSS. 



*^-.'- -•.'•&lt; 



AUTHOR'S ADVERTISEMENT 



TO THE TWELFTH EDITION.* 



HOWEVER sudden and momentous the events 
which we have just beheld so swiftly accom- 
plished, the author of this book has a right to 
say that they have not taken him by surprise.^ 
His work was written fifteen years ago, with a 
mind constantly occupied by a single thought, — 
that the advent of democracy as a governing 
power in the world's affairs, universal and irre- 
sistible, was at hand. Let it be read over again, 
and there will be found on every page a solemn 
^varning, that society changes its forms, humanity 
its condition, and that new destinies are impend- 
ing. It was stated in the very Introduction of the 
work, that " the gradual development of the prin- 
ciple of Equality is a providential fact. It has all 
the chief characteristics of such a fact ; it is uni- 
versai, it is durable, it constantly eludes all human 

* The twelfth edition of this work appcarctl at Paris in 1850, and tliis 
Advertisement was prefixed to it by De Tocquevillo in reference to the 
French Ke volution of 1848. — Am. Ed. 

t The writer here alludes to a speech which ho made in the Chamber of 
Deputies, on the 27th of January, 1848, just one month before the Revolution 
was accomplished. He annexed a report of this speech to the twelfth edi- 
tion of his work, and a truusîaûoa of it will be found at Ûio &lt;^ii&lt;(i oi Ûi&lt;^ 
gecond rolamo, — 'Am. Ed. 



XVI AUTEOB-8 ABVEBTIEEHEST. 

interference, and all events as well as all men 
contribute to ita progress. Would it be wise to 
imagine that a social movement, the causes of 
which lie so far back, con be checked by the e£^ 
forts of one generation ? Can it be believed that 
the democracy, which has overthrown the feudal 
system and vanquished kings, wilt retreat before 
tradesmen and capitalists ? Will it stop now that 
it is grown so strong and its adversaries so weak?" 
He who wrote these lines in ^e presence of a 
monarchy which had been rather confirmed than 
shaken by the Bcvolution of 1830, may now fear- 
lessly ask again the attention of tlie public to bis 
work. And he may be permitted to add, that the 
present state of affairs gives to his book an imme- 
diate interest and a practical utility which it had 
not when it was first published. Royalty was then 
in power; it has now been overthrown. The in- 
stitutions of America, which were a subject only 
of curiosity to monarchical France, ought to be a 
subject of study for republican France. It is not 
force alone, but good laws, which give stability to 
a new government. After Uie combatant, comes 
the legislator ; the one has pulled down, the 
other builds up ; each has his oflice. Though it 
is no longer a question M-hother we sliall have a 
monarchy or a republic in France, we are yot to 
learn whether we shall have a convulised or a 
tranquil republic, — whether it shall be regular 
or irregular, pacific or warlike, liberal or oppres- 
sive, — a republic which menaces the sacred rights 
of pivperty and family, or one which honors and 



t^^^i^-**M 



AUTHOB'S ADVEBTISEMENT. xvii 

protects them both. It is a fearful problem, the 
solution of which concerns not France alone, but 
the whole civilized world. If we Save ourselves, 
we save at the same time all the nations which 
surround us. If we perish, we shall cause all of 
them to perish with us. According as democratic 
liberty or democratic tyranny is established here, 
the destiny of the world will be different; and it 
may be said that this day it depends upon us, 
whether the republic shall be everywhere finally 
established, or everywhere finally overthrown. 

Now this problem, which among us has but 
just been proposed for solution, was solved by 
America more than sixty years ago. The prin- 
ciple of the sovereignty of the people, which we 
enthroned in France but yesterday, has there 
held undivided sway for over sixty years. It is 
there reduced to practice in the most direct, the 
most unlimited, and the most absolute manner. 
For sixty years, the people who have made it the 
common source of all their laws have increased 
continually in population, in territory, and in opu- 
lence; and — consider it well — it is found to have 
been, during that period, not only the most pros- 
perous, but the most stable, of all the nations of 
the earth. Whilst all the nations of Europe have 
been devastated by war or torn by civil discord, 
the American people alone in the civilized world 
have remained at peace. Almost all Europe was 
convulsed by revolutions ; America has not had 
even a revolt.* The republic there has not been 

^ Tbank God that this is history, though it is not the prcaent tact. T^iÇi 



xvm AFTHOS'S ADVEBTISEIŒKT. 

the assailant, but the guardian, of all veated rights; 
the property of iodividuab has had better guaran- 
ties tliere tlian in any other country of the world ; 
anarchy has there been as unknown as despotism. 
Where else could we find greater causes of 
hope, or more instrucUve lessons ? Let us look 
to Âinei'ica, not in order to make a servile copy 
of the institutions which she has established, 
but to gain a clearer view of the polity which 
will he the best for us; let us look there less to 
find examples than instruction; let us borrow from 
her tlie priiiciplen, rather than the details, of her 
laws. The laws of the French republic may be, 
and ought to be, in many cases, different from 
those wliich govern the United States; but the 
principles on which the American constitutions 
rest, — those principles of order, of the balance of 
powers, of true liberty, of deep and sincere respect 
for right, — are indispensable to all republics; they 
ought to be common to all ; and it may be said 
beforehand, that wherever they shall not be found, 
the republic will soon have ceased to exist 

184'*. 

tcconi ofwIiHt our roDtitrf liiu (icen, and of what she accompliabcd durin); 
three qnartctB nl a cfiilury, ie beyonil the power oven of a gignniii; rtliellion 
to llul iiiil. Tivt only tlie faint-hearted, on looking inio the post, cxcIhIth, 
with the giTOl Ilnlian, 

'^ KflUDD mniiglor dolor* 

Oh* rlnrisnl ds[ Uuipo lallta 

Kcltl tcLwrll." 

Nobler spirit» will Diy, thoa^h the memory of what h«i been bo the only 
tar nrhicli gliincd in iho (liii-k darkiiesa thai now sarroundï at, it sliuU li(,'lit 
lU on to mi;:hticr efforts, and kindle in onr liearts a aurer hope of the ro- 
appearanrc of llio day, — of a day whose snmihino «hnll not Iw hrokcn even 
ir ihK one dark cloud that dimincd our former proKpciily. Aji. £d. 



CONTENTS. OF VOL. 1. 






iMTBODUCnOir 



rAOM 

1 



CHAPTER I. 
ExTEUOB Form of Nobth America 19 

CHAPTER II. 

Origin of the Anglo-Americans, and Importance of this 

Oeiqin in relation to their Future Condition . . 31 

Beasons of certain Anomalies which the Laws and Customs of tho 

Anglo-Americans present 55 

CHAPTER III. 
Social Condition of the Anglo-Americans . . . .57 

The striking Cliaractcristic of tlic Social Condition of the Anglo- 

Amerimns b its essential Democracy 57 

Political Consequences of the Social Condition of the Anglo- Amer- 
icans 67 

CHAPTER IV. 
Thx Psikciplb of the Sovereiontt of the People in America 69 

CHAPTER V. 

Necbssitt of Examfnino the Condition of the States db- 

FORB that of the Union AT Larob 73 

The American System of Townships 74 

Limits of the Township 77 

Powers of the Township in New England • • • • 77 

Life in the Township 80 

Spirit of the Townships of New England • • . • %a 
Ibb ConntieB of New EngUnd %^ 



/ 



The AdmmialrarïoD of Gorennnoit In N«v ^^^||1^ ... ST 

Ocnerel licmnrks on the AdmlnûtntioD in tlw UidKd BtatM . M 

Or TUB State , , , , 104 

Legislaiive Foircr of the Slate 104 

The ExcciilÎTc Paver of the Stale IOC 

Political Eficcti of decentralited AdminiatnUkni In tb* United SiaMi lOT 

CHAPTEB VI. 
JcviciiL Power ih thb UkiTBD Siatei, txa m Zmwuxaom 

OS Political Socibtt 113 

Other FonccB groutcd M American Jndgea .... 130 

CHABTEB Til. . 

POUTICÀL JdRIBDIOTIOS IK TOB nNtTSD StATRI . . . ISS 

CnAPTER VIII. 

Thb Federal ConsTiTUTiotj ....... 140 

Ilistorr of the Fvdcral Conatitution ..... 140 

Sumniarj of Ihc FcJcrul Couelilution 143 

PowfiD of the Federal GoTcrntncnt 144 

LegishitiTi; Powcra of lUc Federal GorciuiDOnt . . . .147 
A Airtlier DiHoTCDCc liclwren (lio Senate and ttic Tlonsc of Ilcpr»- 

The Executive Power 151 

In wlmt tlio I'odititin of a President of the United Slulcs ditfera 

frora that of a ConBiituiionnl KiDj.' of Franco . . . 1S3 
Accidental Cnuiws wtiicli may increase the InSuence of the FxceU' 

tivc GoTcmmcnt 1^8 

Whj the President of the United Stales docs not need a ÏInjoritT 

in the t«'o Houses in Onicr to currj on the Goieraraent . 153 

Election of the PrcBidcnt IGU 

Mode of Election IGG 

Crisis of the Election .170 

Re-election of the President 1 72 

Federal Couns of Justice ITU 

Means of dclenninini; the Jarisdiction of the Federal Courts . 1T9 

Different CoKcs of Jarutdietion 181 

Procedure of ilie Federal Courts 187 

ILJeh Rank of (he Supreme Court amongst the great Poircrt of State 190 






CONTENTS. XXI 

In what respects the Federal Constitation is saperior to that of the 

States 193 

Characteristics of the Federal Constitution of the United States of 

America as compared with all other Federal Constitutions . 198 
Adyantagcs of the Federal System in general, and its special Util- 

itj in America 202 

Why the Federal S3rstem is not practicable for all Nations, and how 

the Anglo-Americans were enabled to adopt it . . • 209 

CHAPTER IX. 

How IT CAN BE 9TRICTLT 8À1D THAT THE PEOPLE OOYERK IN 

THE United States • • • 219 

CHAPTER X. 

Parties in the United States 221 

Remains of the Aristocratic Party in the United States • . 227 

CHAPTER XI. 
Liberty of the Press in the United States . . • 230 

CHAPTER XII. 
Political Associations in the United States . , . 242 

CHAPTER XIII. 

Goternvent of the Democracy in America . • . 252 

Universal Suflfrngo . . 252 

The Choice of the People, and the Instinctive Preferences of the 

American Democracy 253 

Canscs which may partly correct these Tendencies of the Dcraocrary 257 
Influence which the American Democracy has exercised on tlic Laws 

relating to Elections 261 

Public Officers under the Control of the American Democracy . 262 
Arbitrary Power of Magistrates under the Rule of the American 

Democracy 265 

Instal)ility of the Administi-ation in the United States . . 268 
Charges levied by the State under the Rule of the American Democ- 
racy 270 

Tendencies of the American Democracy as regards the Salaries of 

public Officers 275 

Difficulty of distiniruishing the Causes which incline the American 

GoYemment to Economy ...... %*l^ 



Zxii COIÏTENTS. 

Whether the Expendhnm ai tbe United States can be compared 

with that of France 

CJormptioB and the Vioef of tbe Rolen in a Democracj, and oon- 

Bequcnt Effects upon Pnblic Honlity .... 286 

Efforts of which a Democrarjr is capable 289 

Sclf-Control of the American Democracj .... 293 
Condnct of Foreign Ai&amp;in b^ tbe American Democracy . 296 

CHAPTEB XIY. 
What are the beal Adtahtaoss which Ambrigait Sogixtt 

DERIVES FROM A DbMOCKATIO GOTBRHMBlfT • • . 902 

General Tendency of the Laws nnder the American Democrscj, 

and Instincts of those who apply them • • • . 802 

Public Spirit in the United States 808 

Notion of Rights in the United States 811 

Respect for the Law in the United States .... 815 

Activity which pervades all Parts of the Body Pblitic in the United 

States; Influence which it exercises upon Society . .317 

CHAPTER XV. 

Uklimited Power of the ^Luoritt in the United States, 

and its ck)nsequ£nces 324 

How the Omnipotence of tlio Majority increases, in America, the 
Instability of Legislation and Administration inherent in De- 
mocracy 327 

T\Tanny of the Majority 330 

Effects of the Omnipotence of the Majority upon the arbitrary Au- 

^^ thority of American ''^"^^^jp P^mmi , , , ^ . 335 

rpwiir riStjT''^^^^ ^T '^^^ Nn jnritT '^^ America upon Opinion ;' 336 

Effects of lliiT^nieimji nflhii ^fiijuillj iilHTniTif TTatfonal Cliaractcr 

of the Americans. — The Coiuticr-spirit in the United States 340 
The greatest Dangers of the American Republics pn)ccctl from the 

Omniix&gt;tenco of tlio Majority 343 

CHAPTER XVI. 

Causes wiiicn mitioatb the Tyranny of the Majority in tub 

United States 346 

Al&gt;8ence of Centralized Administration 346 

The Profession of the Law in the United States serves to counter- 
poise tlie Democracy 348 

Trial by Jury in the United States considered as a Political Institu- 
tion 358 



CONTENTS. 



XXIU 



CHAPTER XVII. 

pBiiTCiPAL Causes which texd to haintain the Democratio 

Republic ih the United States 368 

Accidental or Providential Causes which contribate to maintain the 

Democratic Republic in the United States .... 369 

Influence of the Laws upon the Maintenance of the Democratic Re- 
public in the United States . . . . . . 382 

Influence of Manners upon the Maintenance of the Democratic Re- 
public in tlio UnitSd States 383 

Religion considered as a Political Institution, which powerfully 
contributes to the Biaintenance of the Democratic Republic 
amongst the Americans 383 

Indirect Influence of Religious Opinions upon Political Society in 

the United States 387 

Principal Causes which render Religion powerful in America . 394 

How the Education, the Halnts, and the practical Experience of the 

Americans promote the Success of their Dcmocmtic Institutions 403 

The I^ws contribute more to the Maintenance of the DeTuocratic 
Republic in the United States than the Physical Cinniinstanccs 
of the Country, and the Manners more than the I^ws . . 409 

"Wbethcr Laws ond Manners arc sufficient to maintain Democratic 

Institutions in other Countries lx»idc8 America . . . 414 

Importance of what precedes with Respect to the State of Europe . 418 

CHAPTER XVIII^^^^^^^ 

The Pbesent and PKollABLfr^wwWMi dMSiiiM'fiii.i of the Three 
Races which inhabit the Tehritory of the United 
States 424i^ 

The Present and prolmble Future Condition of the Indian Trilxîs 

which inhahit the Territory possessed by the Union . .431 
Situation of the Black Population in the Unitc&lt;l States, and Dan- / / 

gers with which its Presence threatens the Whites . . . 456**^ / 
What are the Cliances of Duration of the American Union, and . . 

what Dangers threaten it 491/ V' 

Of the Republican Institutions of the United States, and what their / 

Cliances of Duration are 535 ^* 1' 

Some Considerations on the Causes of the Commercial Prosperity 

of the United States 543 ■** 

Conclusion 553 ^ 



INTRODUCTION. 



AMONGST the novel objects that attracted my atten- 
tion during my stay in the United States, nothing 
struck me more forcibly than the general equality of con- 
dition among the people. I readily discovered the prodi- 
gious influence which this primary fiict exercises on the 
whole course of society; it gives a peculiar direction to 
public opinion, and a peculiar tenor to the laws ; it imparts 
new TniiTiTTis to the governing authorities, and peculiar 
habits to the governed. 

I soon perceived that the influence of this fact extends 
fiur beyond the political character and the laws of the coun- 
try, and that it has no less empire over civil society than 
over the government j it creates opinions, gives birth to 
new sentiments, foimds novel customs, and modifies what- 
ever it does not produce. The more I advanced in the 
study of American society, the more I perceived that this 
equality of condition is the fundamental fact from which 
all others seem to be derived, and the central point at 
which all my observations constantly terminated. 

I then turned my thoughts to our own hemisphere, and 
thought that I discerned there something analogous to 
the spectacle which the New World presented to me. I 
observed that equality of condition, though it has not 
there reached the extreme limit which it seems to have 
attained in the United States, is constantly aççroachiik^ 



2 BmODUCTION. 

it ; and that the âemocracj wbich governs llie American 
coinmunities appears to be rapidly rising into power in 
Europe. 

Hence I conceiyed tlie idea of tlie book which is now 
before tlie reader. 

It is evident to all alike that a great democratic revolur 
tion is going on amongst ns ; bat all do not look at it in 
the same light. To some it appears to be novel bat acci- 
dental, and, as such, they hope it may still be checked ; to 
others it seems irresistible, because it is the most uniform, 
the most ancient, and the most permanent tendency which 
is to be found in history. 

I look back for a moment on the situation of France 
seven hundred years ago, when the territory was divided 
amongst a small number of &amp;milies, who were the owners 
of the soil and the rulers of the inhabitants ; the right of 
governing descended with the feunily inheritance from gen- 
eration to generation ; force was the only means by which' 
man could act on man ; and landed property was the sole 
source of power. 

Soon, however, the political power of the clergy was 
founded, and began to increase: the clergy opened their 
ranks to all classes, to the poor and the rich, the vassal and 
the lord ; through tlie Church, equality penetrated into the 
Government, and he who as a serf must have vegetated in 
perpetual bondage took his place as a priest in the midst 
of nobles, and not unfrequently above the heads of kings. 

The different relations of men with each other became 
more complicated and numerous as society gi*adually be- 
came more stable and civilized. Hence the want of civil 
laws was felt ; and the ministers of law soon rose from the 
obscurity of the tribunals and their dusty cliambcrs, to 
appear at the court of the monarch, by the side of the 
feudal barons clothed in their ermine and their mail. 

Wliilst the kings were ruining themselves by their great 



INTRODUCTION. 8 

enterprises, and the nobles exhausting their resources bj 
private wars, the lower orders were enriching themselves 
by commerce. The influence of money began to be per- 
ceptible in state af&amp;Irs. The transactions of business 
opened a new road to power, and the financier rose to a 
station of poUtical influence in which he was at once flair 
tered and despised. 

Gradually the difiusion of intelligence, and the increas- 
ing taste for literature and art, caused learning and talent 
to become a means of government ; mental ability led to 
social power, and the man of letters took a part in the 
affairs of the state. 

The value attached to high birth declined just as fast as 
new avenues to power were discovered. In the eleventh 
century, nobility was beyond all price ; in the thirteenth, 
it might be purchased. Nobility was first conferred by gift; 
in 1270 ; and equality was thus introduced into the govern- 
ment by the aristocracy itself. 

In the course of these seven hundred years, it sometimes 
happened that the nobles, in order to resist the authority 
of the crown, or to diminish the power of their rivals, 
granted some political influence to the common people. 
Or, more frequently, the king permitted the lower orders 
to have a share in the government, with the intention of 
depressing the aristocracy. 

In France, the kings have always been the most active 
and the most constant of levellers. When they were strong 
and ambitious, they spared no pains to raise the people to 
the level of the nobles; when they were temperate and 
feeble, they allowed the people to rise above themselves. 
Some assisted the democracy by their talents, others by 
their vices. Louis XI. and Louis XIV. reduced all ranks 
beneath the throne to the same degree of subjection ; and, 
finally, Louis XV. descended, himself and all his court, 
into the dust. 



4 nmtODnonra. 

As soon as land b^in to be held on any other tiuni « 
feudal tenure, and personal proper^ m its torn became 
able to confer ioflaence and pover, every discoreiy in the 
arts, every improvement in commerce or maim&amp;cttures, 
created so many new elements of equality among men. 
Henceforward every new invention, every new want which 
it occoâioned, and every new desire which craved satia&amp;c- 
tion, was a step towards a general levelling. The taste foe 
luxury, the love of war, the empire c^ ftsh^, and the moat 
superficial an well as the de^Kst passions of £he hnman 
heart, seemed to co-operate to enrich the poor and to imr 
poverish the rich. 

From the time when the exerdse of the intellect became 
a source of strength and of wealth, we see ^t eveiy addi- 
tion to science, eveiy fresh truth, and every new idea 
became a germ of power placed within the reach of the 
people. Poetiy, eloquence, and memory, the graces of 
the mind, the glow of imagination, depth of thought, and 
all the gifts which Heaven scatters at a venture, turned to 
the advantage of the democracy; and even when they 
were in the possession of its adversaries, they still served 
its cause by throwing into bold relief the natural greats 
ness of man. Its conquests spread, tiiercforc, witli those 
of ci\'ilization and knowledge; and literature became an 
arsenal open to all, where the poor and the weak dmly 
resorted for arms. 

In running over the pages of our history for seven hun- 
dred years, we shall scarcely find a single great event 
which has not promoted equality of condition. 

The Crusades and the English wars decimated the no- 
bles and thvided their possessions : the municipal corpora- 
tions introduced democratic liberty into the bosom of feudal 
monarchy ; the invention of fire-anus equalized tlie vassal 
and the noble on the field of batde ; tlie art of priming 
opened the same resources to die minds of all classes ; the 



» ■■ . "M^-" 



DITRODUCnON. 5 

post-office brought knowledge alike to the door c£ the 
cottage and to the gate of the palace ; and Protestantism 
proclaimed that all men are alike able to find the read 
to heaven. The discovery of America opened a thousand 
new paths to fortune, and led obscure adventurers to 
wealth and power. 

If, beginning with the eleventh century, we examine 
what has happened in France from one half^sentury to 
another, we ihall not &amp;il to perceive, at the end of each 
of these periods, that a twofold revolution has taken place 
in the state of society. The noble has gone down on the 
social ladder, and the commoner has gone up ; the one de- 
scends as the other rises. Every half-«entury brings them 
nearer to each other, and they will soon meet. 

Nor is this peculiar to France. Whithersoever we turn 
our eyes, we perceive the sam*? revolution going on 
Ihroughout the Christian world. The various occur- 
rences of national existence have v,\erywhere turned to 
the advantage of democracy: all men have aided it by 
their exertions, both those who have intentionally labored 
in its cause, and those who have served it unwittingly ; 
those who have fought for it, and t^ose who have declared 
themselves its opponents, have all been driven along in the 
same track, have all labored to one end; some ignorantly 
and some unwillingly, all have been blind instruments in 
the hands of God. 

The gradual development of the principle of equality is, 
therefore, a Providential fiu;t. It has all the chief charac- 
teristics &lt;rf such a feet : it is universal, it is durable, it con- 
stantly eludes all human interference, and all events as 
well as all men contribute to its progress. 

Would it, then, be wise to imagine that a social move- 
ment, the causes of which lie so fer back, can be checked 
by the efforts of one generation ? Can it be believed that 
the democracy which has overthrown the feudal system^ 



6 IMTBODUCrnON. 

and vanquished kings, will retreat before tradesmen ana 
capitalists ? Will it stop now that it has grown so strong, 
and its adversaries so weak ? 

Whither, then, are we tending? No one can saj, finr 
terms of comparison already fidl us. The conditions of 
men are more equal in Christian countries at the present 
day than they have been at any previous time, or in any 
part of the world ; so that the magnitude of what already 
has been done prevents us from foreseeing what is yet to. 
be accompUshed. 

The whole book which is here offered to the public has 
been written under the impression of a kind of reliions 
terror produced in the author's mind by the view of that 
irresistible revolution which has advanced for centuries in 
spite of every obstacle, and which is still advancing in the 
midst of the ruins it has caused. 

It is not necessary that God himself should speak in or- 
der that we may discover the unquestionable signs of his 
will. It is enough to ascertain what is the habitual course 
of nature and the constant tendency of events. I know, 
without a special revelation, that the planets move in the 
orbits traced by the Creator's hand. 

If the men of our time should be convinced, by attentive 
observation and sincere reflection, that the gradual and 
progressive development of social equality is at once the 
past and the future of their history, this discovery alone 
would confer the sacred character of a Divine decree upon 
the change. To attempt to check democracy would be in 
that case to resist the will of God ; and the nations would 
tlien be constrained to make the best of the social lot 
awarded to them by Providence. 

The Christian nations of our day seem to me to present 
a most alarming speiitacle ; the movement which impels 
diem is already so strong that it cannot be stopped, but it 
is not yet so rapid that it cannot be guided. Their &amp;te is 



f^^fV^I^AflMVBiaV^'Bktf^HBM^llW^^^^ *— « t .w- -^^■*»-— "■ ^-^f»- ^ %' 



DÎTBODUCTION. 7 

stQl in their own hands ; yet a little while, and it may be 
so no longer. 

The first of the duties which are at this time imposed 
upon those who direct our affairs, is to educate the democ- 
racy ; to renovate, if possible, its reUgious beUef ; to purify 
its morals ; to regulate its movements ; to substitute by 
degrees a knowledge of business for its inexperience, and 
an acquaintance with its true interests for its blind in- 
stincts; to adapt its government to time and place, and 
to make it conform to the occurrences and the men of the 
times. A new science of poUtics is needed for a new 
world. 

This, however, is what we think (Â least ; placed in the 
middle of a rapid stream, we obstinately fix our eyes on 
the ruins which may still be descried upon the shore we 
have left, whilst the current hurries us away, and drags us 
backward toward the gulf. 

In no country in Europe has the great social revolution 
which I have just described made such rapid progress as 
in France ; but it has always advanced without guidance. 
The heads of the state have made no preparation for it, 
and it has advanced without their consent or without their 
knowledge. The most powerful, the most intelligent, and 
the most moral classes of the nation have never attempted 
to take hold of it in order to guide it. The democracy 
has consequently been abandoned to its wild instincts, and 
it has grown up like those children who have no parental 
guidance, who receive their education in the public streets^ 
and who are acquainted only with the vices and wretched- 
ness of society. Its existence was seemingly unknown,^ 
when suddenly it acquired supreme power. Every one 
then submitted to its caprices ; it was worshipped as the 
idol of strength ; and when afterwards it was enfeebled by 
its own excesses, the legislator conceived the rash project 
of destroying it, instead of instructing it and correcting its 



8 isTB(H)0on(ni. 

vices. Xo sttempt wu made to fit it to gOTem, but all 
were beat on excluding it fixnn urn government. 

The comequence lias berai, tiiat the democratic revolutioa 
has taken place in the body of sodefy, vitfaout that con* 
comitant change in the laws, ideas, crutoms, and manners, 
which was necessary to render anch a rerolntion bénéficia]. 
Thos we have a democracy, without anything to lesseoi itg 
vices and bring out its natural advantages ; and althou^ 
we already perceive ^ evils it brings, we are ignorant of 
the benefits it may confer. 

While the power of the crown, si^ported by the aris- 
tocracy, peaceably governed the nations of Europe, society, 
in the midst of its wretchedness, had several sources of 
happiness which can now scarcely be conceived or appre- 
ciated. The power of a part of his subjects was an insur- 
mountable barrier to the tyranny of the prince ; and the 
monarch, who felt the almost divine character which he 
enjoyed in the eyes of the multitude, derived a motive for 
the just use of his power from the respect which he in- 
spired. The nobles, high as they were placed above the 
people, could not but take that calm and b^n^volcnt 
interest in their fate which the shepherd feels towards 
his flock; and without acknowledging the poor as their 
equals, they watched over the destiny of tliose whose wel- 
ikre Providence had intrusted to tlieir care. The people, 
never having conceived the idea of a social condition dif- 
ferent from their own, and never expecting to become 
equal to their leaders, received benefits from them without 
discussing their rights. They became attached to tliom 
when they were clement and just, and submitted to thoir 
exactions without resistance or servility, as to tlie ine\'itable 
visitations of the Deity. Custom and the manners of the 
time, moreover, had established certain limits to oppression, 
and put a sort of legal restraint upon violence. 

As the noble never suspected that any one would at- 



miÊÊÊi 



mTBODUCnON. 9 

tempt to deprive him of the privfleges which he believed 
to be Intimate, and as the serf looked upon his own 
inferiority as a consequence of the immatable order of 
nature, it is easy, to imagine that some mutual exchange 
o£ good-will took place between two classes so differently 
gifted by &amp;te. Inequality and wretchedness were then to 
be found in society ; but the souls of neither rank of men 
were degraded. 

Men are not corrupted by the exercise of power, or 
debased by the habit of obedience; but by the exercise \ 
of a power which they believe to be illegitimate, and by { 
obedience to a rule which they consider to be usurped J 
and oppressive. '^ 

On the one side were wealth, strength, and leisure, 
accompanied by the refinements of luxury, the elegance 
of taste, the pleasures of wit, and the cultivation of the 
arts; on the other, were labor, clownishness, and igno- 
rance. But in the midst of this coarse and ignorant multi- 
tude it was not uncommon to meet with energetic passions, 
generous sentiments, profound religious convictions, and 
wild virtues. 

The social state thus organized might boast of its star 
bility, its power, and, above all, its glory. 

But the scene is now changed. Gradually the distinc- 
tions of rank are done away; the barriers which once 
severed mankind are âdling down; property is divided, 
power is shared by many, the light of intelligence spreads, 
and the capacities of all classes are equally cultivated. The 
State becomes democratic, and the empire of democracy is 
slowly and peaceably introduced into the institutions and 
the manners of the nation. 

I can conceive of a society in which all men would feel 
an equal love and respect for the laws of which they con- 
sider themselves as the authors ; in which the authority of 

the government would be respected as necessary, though 

1* 



10 niTBODDOTKni. 

not as divine ; and m which the loyalty of the sabject to 
the chief magistrate woold not be a passion, bat a qniet 
and rational persuasion. Everf individnal being in the 
possession of rights which he is rare to retain, a kind 
of manly confidence and reciprocal conrteay woald aiiae 
between all classes, alike removed from pride and servili^. 
The people, well acquainted with their own trae interests, 
would understand that, in order to profit hj the advantages 
of society, it is necessary to satisfy its requisitions. The 
voluntary association of the citizena might then take the 
place of the individual exertions of the nobles, and the 
community would be alike protected from anarchy and 
from oppression. 

I admit that, in a democratic state thus constituted, 
society would not be stationary. But the impulses of the 
social body miglit there he regulated and made progressive. 
If there were less splendor than in the midst of an ari»- 
tocracy, the contrast of misery would also be less frequent ; 
the pleasures of enjoyment might be less excessive, but 
tliosc of comfort would be more general ; the sciences 
might be less perfectly cultivated, but ignorance would 
be less common ; the impetuosity of the feelings would 
be repressed, and the habits of tlie nation softened ; there 
would be more ^ïces and fewer great crimes. 

In the absence of enthusiasm and an ardent Mth, great 
sacrifices may be obtained from the members of a common- 
wealth by an appeal to their understandings and tlieir ex- 
perience ; each individual will feel the same necessity of 
union with liis follows to protect his own weakness ; and 
as he knows that he can obtain their help only on condition 
of liclping them, he will readily perceive that his jioi-sonal 
interest is identified ivith the interests of the whole commu- 
nity. The nation, taken as a whole, will be less brilliant, 
less glorious, and perhaps less strong; but the majority of 
the citizens will enjoy a greater degree of prosperity, and 



INTBODUOnON. U 

die people will remaiB quiet, not because they despair of a 
change for the better, but because they are conscious that 
lliey are well off already. 

If all the consequences of this state of things were not 
good OF useful, society would at least have appropriated all 
such as were useful and good ; and having once and for 
ever renounced the social advantages of aristocracy, man- 
kind would enter into possession of all the benefits which 
democracy can afford. 

But here it may be asked what we have adopted in the 
place of those institutions, those ideas, and those customs 
of our forefeithers which we have abandoned. 

The spell of royalty is broken, but it has not been sno 
ceeded by the majesty of the laws. The people have 
learned to despise all authority, but tliey still fear it ; and 
fear now extorts more than was formerly p^d from rever- 
ence and love. 

I perceive that we have destroyed those individual pow- 
ers which were able, single-handed, to cope with tyranny ; 
but it is the government that has inherited the privileges 
of which &amp;milies, corporations, and individuals have been 
deprived j to the power of a small number of persona — 
which, if it was sometimes oppressive, was oflen conservar- 
tive — has succeeded the weakness of the whole commu- 
nity. 

The division of property has lessened the distance which 
separated the rich from the poor ; but it would seem tliat, 
the nearer they draw to each other, the greater is their 
mutual hatred, and the more vehement the envy and the 
dread with which they resist each other's claims to power ; 
the idea of Right does not exist for either party, and Force 
affords to both the only argument for the present, and the 
only guaranty for the future. 

The poor man retains the prejudices of his forefathers 
ifithout their ^th, and their ignorance without their 



12 INTRODUCTION. 

virtues ; he has adopted the doctrine of self-interest as 
the rule of his actions, without understanding the science 
which puts it to use ; and his selfishness is no less blind 
than was formerly his devotedness to others. 

If society is tranquil, it is not because it is conscious of 
its strength and its well-being, but because it fears its 
weakness and its infirmities ; a single effort may cost it its 
life. Everybody feels the evil, but no one has courage or 
energy enough to seek the cure. The desires, the repin- 
ings, the sorrows, and the joys of the present time lead to 
no visible or permanent result, like the passions of old men, 
which terminate in impotence. 

We have, then, abandoned whatever advan':ages the old 
state of things afforded, without receiving any compensa- 
tion firom our present condition ; we have destroyed an 
aristocracy, and we seem inclined to survey its ruins with 
complacency, and to fix our abode in the midst of them. 

The phenomena which the intellectual world presents 
are not less deplorable. The democracy of France, ham- 
pered in its course or abandoned to its lawless passions, has 
overthrown whatever crossed its path, and has shaken all 
that it has not destroyed. Its empire has not been grad- 
ually introduced, or peaceably established, but it has con- 
stantly advanced in the midst of the disorders and the 
agitations of a conflict. In the heat of the struggle, each 
partisan is hurried beyond the natural limits of his opinions 
by the doctrines and the excesses of his opponents, until he 
loses sight of the end of his exertions, and holds a language 
which does not express his real sentiments or secret in- 
stincts. Hence arises the strange confiision which we are 
compelled to witness. 

I can recall nothing in history more worthy of sorrow 
and pity, than the scenes which are passing under our eyes. 
It is as if the natural bond which unites the opinions of 
man to his tastes, and his actions to his principles, was 



INTRODUCTION. 18 

now broken;, the sympathy which has always been ol^ 
senred between the feelings and the ideas of mankind 
qypears to be dissolved, and all the laws of moral anal- 
ogy to be abolished. 

Zealous Christians are still found amongst us, whose 
minds are nurtured on the thoughts which pertain to a 
fbtare life, and who readily espouse the cause of human 
Uber^ as the source of all moral greatness. Christianity, 
which has declared that all men are equal in the sight of 
God, will not refiise to acknowledge that all citizens are 
equal in the eye of the law. But, by a singular concourse 
of events, religion has been for a time entangled with those 
institutions which democracy assails ; and it is not unfre- 
qaently brought to reject the equality which it loves, and 
to curse that cause of liberty as a foe, whose efforts it 
might hallow by its alliance. 

By the side of these religious men, I discern othei's 
whose looks are turned to earth rather than to heaven. 
These are the partisans of liberty, not only as the source 
of the noblest virtues, but more especially as the root of all 
solid advantages ; and they sincerely desire to secure its 
authority, and to impart its blessings to mankind. It is 
natural that they should hasten to invoke the assistance of 
religion, for they must know that liberty cannot be estab- 
lished without morality, nor morality without faith. But 
they have seen religion in the ranks of their adversaries, 
and they inquire no further; some of them attack it 
openly, and the remainder are a&amp;aid to defend it. 

In former ages, slavery was advocated by the venal and 
slavish-minded, whilst the independent and the warm- 
hearted were struggling without hope to save the liberties 
of mankind. But men of high and generous characters 
are now to be met with, whose opinions are at variance 
with their inclinations, and who praise that servility which 
they have themselves never known. Others, on the con- 




14 iirnHn&gt;D(Tnoit 

tnuy, speak of liberty as if ihej were able to feel ita nne- 

tity and it^ majesty, and londly claim fer humanity dion 
righte wliich they have always reftued 1» acknowledge. 

There are virtaoos and peacefiil indÎTidnals whose pore 
morality, quiet habits, opulence, and talents fit them to he 
the leaders of the sorronnding population. Thar love of 
country is sincere, and they are ready to make the greatest 
sacrifices for its welfitfe. Bnt civilization often finds &amp;em 
among its opponents; they confound its abuses with its 
benefits, and the idea of evil is inseparable in th«r minds 
from that of novelty. 

Near these I find others, whose object is to materialize 
mankind, to hit upon what is expedient without heeding 
what is just, to acquire knowledge without faith, and pros- 
perity apart from virtue ; claiming to be the champions of 
modem citTlization, they place themselves arrogantly at its 
head, usurping a place which is abandoned to them, and 
of which tliey are wholly unworthy. 

^V^lere are we, then? 

The religionists are the enemies of liberty, and the 
friends of liberty attack religion ; the high-minded and 
the noble advocate bondage, and the meanest and most 
servile preach independence ; honest and enlightened citi- 
zens arc opposed to all progress, whilst men without patri- 
otism and without principle put themselves forward as the 
apostles of civilization and intelligence. 

Has such been the fate of the centuries which have pre- 
ceded our own? and has man always inhabited a world 
like the present, where all things are out of their natural 
connections, where virtue is without genius, and genius 
without honor; where the love of order Is confounded 
with a taste for oppression, and the holy rites of freedom 
■ with a contempt of law ; where the light thrown by con- 
science on human actions is dim, and where nothing seems 
to be any hngcr forbidden or allowed, honorable or sham^ 
A/, &amp;he or true ? 



INTRODUCTION 15 

I cannot believe that the Creator made man to leave 
him in an endless struggle with the intellectual miseries 
which surround us. God destines a calmer and a more* 
certain fiiture to the commimities of Europe. I am igno- 
rant of his designs, but I shall not cease to believe in them 
because I cannot fiithom them, and I had rather mistrust 
my own capacity than his justice. 

There is a country in the world wfiere the great social 
revolution which I am speaking of seems to have nearly 
reached its natural Umits. It has been effected with ease 
and quietness ; say rather that this country is reaping the 
fimits of the democratic revolution which we are under- 
going, without having had the revolution itself. 

The emigrants who colonized the shores of America in 
the beginning of the seventeenth century somehow sep- 
arated the democratic principle from all the principles 
which it had to contend with in the old commimities of 
Europe, and transplanted it alone to the New World. It 
has there been able to spread in perfect freedom, and 
peaceably to determine the character of the laws by in- 
fluencing the manners of the country. 

It appears to me beyond a doubt that, sooner or later, 
we shall arrive, like the Americans, at an almost complete 
equality of condition. But I do not conclude from this, 
that we shall ever be necessarily led to draw the same po- 
litical consequences which the Americans have derived 
from a similar social organization. I am far from sup- 
posing that they have chosen the only form of government 
which a democracy may adopt; but as the generative 
cause of laws and manners in the two countries is the 
same, it is of immense interest for us to know what it has 
produced in each of them. 

It is not, then, merely to satisfy a legitimate curiosity 
that I have examined America ; my wish has been to find 
there instruction by which we may ourselves profit. WViO- 



16 INTBODUCTION. 

ever should imagine that I have intended to write a pan* 
egyric would be strangely mistaken, and on reading this 
book, he will perceive that such was not mj design : nor 
has it been mj object to advocate any form of government 
in particular, for I am of opinion that absolute excellence 
is rarely to be found in any system of laws. I have not 
even pretended to judge whether the social revolution, 
which I beUeve to be irresistible, is advantageous or preju- 
dicial to mankind. I have acknowledged this revolution 
as a fiict already accomplished, or on the eve of its accom- 
plishment ; and I have selected the nation, from amongst 
those which have undergone it, in which its development 
has been the most peaceful and the most complete, in order 
to discern its natural consequences, and to find out, if possi- 
ble, the means of rendering it profitable to mankind. I con- 
fess that, in America, I saw more than America ; I sought 
there the image of democracy itself, with its inclinations, 
its character, its prejudices, and its passions, in order to 
learn what we have to fear or to hope from its progress. 

In the first part of this work, I have attempted to show 
the direction given to the laws by the democracy of Amer- 
ica, which is abandoned almost without restraint \o its 
instinctive propensities ; and to exhibit the course it pre- 
scribes to the government and the influence it exercises on 
affairs. I have sought to discover the evils and the advan- 
tages which it brings. I have examined the precautions 
used by the Americans to direct it, as well as those which 
they have not adopted, and I have undertaken to point out 
the causes which enable it to govern society. I do not 
know whether I have succeeded in making known what I 
saw in America, but I am certain that such has been my 
sincere desire, and that I have never, knowingly, moulded 
facts to ideas, instead of ideas to facts. 

Whenever a point could be established by the aid of 
written documents, I have had recourse to the original 



MTBODUCTIOS. 17 

text, and to the most authentic and approved works.* I 
have cited mj aathoiities in the notes, and any one may 
lefer to them. Whenever opinions, political customs, or 
remarks on the nuumers of the country were concerned, I 
have endeavored to consult the most enlightened men I met 
vith. If the point in question was important or doubtiiil, 
I was not satisfied with one testimony, but I formed my 
opinion on the evidence of several witnesses. Here the 
reader must necessarily rely upon my word. I coal&lt;l 
^«qnently have quoted names which are either known 
to him, or which deserve to be so, in proof of what I 
advance; but I have carefully abstained from tliia prac- 
tice. A stranger frequently hears important truths at the 
fireside of his host, which the latter would perhaps con- 
ceal from the ear of friendship ; he consoles himself with 
his guest for the silence to which he is rcstrictod, and the 
shortness of the traveller's stay takes away all fear of his 
indiscretion. I carefiilly noted every conversation of this 
nature as soon as it occurred, but these notes will never 
leave my writing-case. I had rather injure the success of 
my statements than add my name to the list of those stran- 
gers who repay the generous hospitality they have received 
by subsequent cliagrin and annoyance. 

I am aware that, notwithstanding my care, nothing will 
be easier than to criticise this book, if any one ever chooses 
to criticise it. 

* LegisladTe and execativo docamenU haya been fumislicd to tno wilh &gt; 
kindncn which I shall alirajs remcinber irith (piktttude. Among tlie Amcr- 
icsa italewncn who have thns helped mj rescarchcB, I will moution particu- 
Uxlj Mr. Ëdwaid Livingslon, then Secrelaiy of SlaW, aHcrwatds Minuter 
FleoipoteDtiaij aE Farig. During mj staj at Washinfrion, he was kind 
enoDgh to gire me moEt of the dopamEnte whiizh I poescsa relating to the 
Federal Govennnent. Mr. LiviDgsLon is odd of the few men whoso writinga 
CMM us to cODC^Te an allèction foi them, whom wc admire and respect 
eren before we come to know them personall;, and to whom it ia &amp; ^\euim 
ID owe a debt oTgimtilade. 



18 DTTKHniCnOK. 

Those readera who may csunine it cloael7 wd dûcorer, 
I think, in the whole wmk, a donùniiit thought wbidi 
binds, so to speak, its sevenl parts together. Bnt the di- 
versity of the sntgects I bave had to treat is exceeding]^ 
great, and it will not be dïfficiilt to oppose an isolated fiict 
to the body of facts which I cite, or an isolated idea to the 
body of ideas I put forth. I hope to be read in the spirit 
wltich lias guided my labors, and that my book may be 
judged by the general impression it leaves, as I have 
formed my own judgment not on any sin^e reason, bot 
upon the mass of evidence. 

It must not be forgotten that the antiior who wishes to 
be understood i^ obliged to push all his ideas to their nt^ 
most theoretical consequences, and often to the verge of 
what is false or Impracticable ; for if it be necessary some- 
times to depart &amp;om the rules of logic in action, such is 
not the case in discourse, and a man finds it almost as diffi- 
cult to be inconsistent in his language, as to be consistent 
in his conduct. 

I conclude by myself pointing out what many readers 
will consider the principal defect of the work. This book 
is written to fiivor no particular \iews, and in composing 
it, I liave entertained no design of serving or attacking 
any party. I have undertaken, not to see differently &amp;om 
others, but to look further tluin others, and whilst they are 
busied for the morrow only, I have turned my tlioughts to 
till) whole future. 



rift 



DEMOCRACY U AMERICA. 



CHAPTER I. 

EXTEBIOB FORM OF NORTH AMERICA. 

North America divided into two met Regions, one inclining toward the 
Pole, the other toward the Eqaator. — Valley of the Mississippi. — 
Traces found there of the Berolutions of the Globe. — Shore of the 
Atlantic Ocean, on which the English Colonics were founded. — 
DifTcrent Aspects of North and of South America at tlio Time of 
their Discovery. — Forests of North America. — Prairies. — Wandering 
Tribes of Natives. — Their outward Appearance, Manners, and Lan- 
guages. — Traces of an unknown People. 

NORTH AMERICA presents in its external form 
certain general features which it is easy to discrim- 
inate at the first glance. 

A sort of methodical order seems to have regulated tlie 
separation of land and water, mountains and valleys. A 
simple but grand arrangement is discoverable amidst the 
confusion of objects and the prodigious variety of scenes. 

This continent is divided almost equally into two vast 
regions, one of which is bounded on the north by the Arc- 
tic Pole, and by tlie two great oceans on the east and west. 
It stretches toward the south, forming a triangle, whose 
irregular sides meet at length above the great lakes of 
Canada. The second region begins where the other ter- 
minates, and includes all the remainder of the continent. 
The one slopes gently toward tlie Pole, the other toward 
the Equator. 



r 



'M imoauoT IN jjmioA. 

The territory ctmipidieDiled in ibm flnt ng 
toward the north with w imparcqifiblfl » alope, tint it 
may almost be said to fiinii a plûn. Within the bomub 
of this immense lerel tract there are neither hif^ moaai- 
ttâas nor deep valleya. Streams meander throiif^ it ineg* 
ularly ; great riT^ra intertwine, separate, and meet agpin, 
spread into vast manhea, losing all trace aC Ûuàe t-W'Tujn 
in the labyrinth of waters ikey have themsehea mated, 
and thus at length, after innomeraUe winding fiO intA 
the Polar seas. The great lakea which bound tins first 
region are not walled in, fib moat of those in Ae Old 
World, between hills and rocks. Thdr banks an flat, 
and rise but a few feet above the lerel of thdr waters, — 
each of them thus forming a vast bowl filled to the brim. 
The slightest change in the structure of the globe would 
cause their waters to rush either towards the Pole or to 
the tropical seas. 

The sectmd region has a more broken sur&amp;ce, and is bet- 
ter suited for the habitation of man. Two long chidns of 
mountains divide it, &amp;om one extreme to the other: the 
one, named the Alleghany, follows the direction of the 
shore of tlie Atlantic Ocean ; the other is parallel with 
the Pacific. 

The space which lies between these two chains of moun- 
tains contains 1,341,6-19 square miles.* Its surfiice is 
therefore about six times as great as that of France. 

This vast territory, however, forms a sin^e valley, one 
side of which descends from the rounded summits of the 
Allcghanies, while the other rises in an uninterrupted 
course to the tops of the Rocky Mountains. At the botr 
torn of the valley flows an immense river, into which thé 
various streams issuing from the mountains &amp;11 from all 
parts. In memory of their native huid, tlie French 6a- 
merly called this river the St Louis. The Indians, in 

* Jhibft View of tlw U^Md Bum, f . 4W. 



EITERIOB FOKH OF MOBTH AMERICA. 21 

ttàr pompous language, have named it the Father of 
Waten, or the Mississippi. 

The Mississippi takes iU source at the boundary of the 
two great re^ons of which I have spoken, not far from the 
highest point of the table-land where they unite. Near 
the same spot rises another river [the Red River of the 
North], which empties itself into the Polar seas. The 
course of the Mississippi b at first dubious : it winds sev- 
eral times towards the north, whence it rose ; and only at 
length, after having been delayed in lakes and marshes, 
does it assume its definite direction, and flow slowly on- 
ward to the south. 

Sometimes quietly gliding along the argillaceous bed 
which nature haa assigned to it, sometimes swollen by 
fi^shetfl, the Mississippi waters over 2,500 miles in ite 
course. At the distance of 1,364 miles from its month, 
this river attains an average depth of fifteen feet ; and it is 
navigated by vessels of 300 tons burden for a course of 
nearly 500 miles. Fifb^-seven large navigable rivers con- 
tribute to swell the waters of tlie Mississippi ; amongst 
others, the Missouri, which traverses a space of 2,500 
miles,' the Arkansas, 1,300 miles, the Red River, 1,000 
miles, the Ohio, 959 miles ; four whose course is from 800 
to 1,000 miles in length, viz. the Illinois, the St. Peter's, 
the St. Francis, and the Des Moines ; besides a countless 
multitude of rivulets which unite from all parts their trib- 
utary streams. 

The valley which is watered by the Mississippi seems to 
have been created for it alone, arid there, like a god of an- 
tiquity, the river dispenses both good and evil. Near the 
stream, nature displays an inexhaustible fertility ; in pro- 
portion as you recede from its banks, the powers of vegeta- 
tion languish, the soil becomes poor, and the plants that 
Borvive have a sickly growth.* Nowhere have the great 

■ Tbà tlatenimit it exaggenied, or gjrea a false impnuton. t^ fcrâM 



2S DEHOCBACT DI AVEBICA. 

con^-uIsions of the globe left more evident tnces tliim ÏD 
tlie valley of the Mississippi. The whole aspect of the 
country shows the powerftil effects of water, both bj ita 
fertility and its barrenness. The waters of the primeval 
ocean accumulated enonnouB beds of vegetable monld in 
tlie valley, which they levelled as they retired. Upon the 
riglit bank of tlte river are found immense plains, as 
smooth as if tlio husbandman had passed over them with 
Iiis roller. As you approach the mountains, the soil b^ 
comes more and more unequal and sterile ; the ground ia, 
as it were, pierced in a thousand places by primitive rocks, 
wliiuli appear like the bones of a skeleton whose fleeh hu 
been consumed by time. The surface of the earth is cov- 
ered with a granitic sand, and huge, irregular masses of 
stone, among which a few plants force their growth, and 
give the appearance of a gi'ecn fiuld covered with the rums 
of a vast edifice. These stones and this sand discover, on 
examination, a perfect analogy with those which compose 
tlic iirid and broken summits of the Rocky Mountains. 
Tlic Hood of waters which washed the soil to the bottom 
of the valley, aftorwanis carried away portions of the 
rorks themselves; and tliese, dashed and bruised against 
tlie neighboring cliffs, were left scattered like wrecks at 

4)«4cJb:t.* 

Tlio valley of the Mississippi is, upon the whole, the 
most magnificent dwelling-place prepare&lt;l by God for 
man's alx^le ; and yet it may be said that at present it is 
but a mighty descrt.f 

On the eastern side of the Alleglianies, between the 
base of these mountains and the Atlantic Ocean, there lies 

laiiil " near the slrcam " ia oden ovrr (ive liuiiclrvd miles broarl, ddiI only on 
the M'vitcm Kide, anrl at a greater tliflaniv ttian lliis, ii fimiiil a grrat atcrila 
tract to wliirJi lliig JosrriptioQ is applicable. — An, V.n, 
■ Bfo Ap|icnflix A. 

/ T!ic population at tlie valley ia dow ueartj thiice aa great aa it Wl* 
wliea tliia teat writteu. — Am. Ei&gt;. 



EXTEBIOB FORM OF NOBTH AMEBICA. 28 

a long ridge of rocks and sand, which the sea appears to 
have left behind as it retired. The mean breadth of this 
territory does not exceed one hundred miles ; hut it is 
about nine hundred miles in length. This part of the 
American continent has a soil which offers every obstacle 
to the husbandman, and its vegetation is scanty and un- 
varied. 

Upon this inhospitable coast the first united efForts of 
homan industry were mode. This tongue of arid land 
was the cradle of those English colonies which were des- 
tined one day to become the United States of America. 
The centre of power still remains here ; whilst in the rear 
of it the tme elements of the great people to whom the 
future control of the continent belongs are gatliering al- 
most in secrecy together. 

When the Europeans first landed on tlie shores of tlie 
West Indies, and afterwards on the coast of South Amer- 
ica, they thought themselves tranqiortcd into those bibu- 
lous regions of which poets had sung. The sea sparkled 
with phosphoric light, and the extraordinary transparency 
of its waters discovered to the \-iew of the na\-igator all 
the depths of the abyss.* Here and there ajipeared httle 
islands perfumed with odoriferous planta, and resembling 
baskets of flowers floatinj^ on the tranquil surface of the 
ocean. Every object which met the sight, in this en- 
chanting region, seemed prepared to satisfy tlio wants or 
contribute to the pleasures of man. Almost all the trees 
were loaded with nourishing fruits, and those which were 
useless as food delighted the eye by the brilliancy and 
variety of their colora. In, groves of fragrant lemon-trees, 

• Maltc Bnm tc[1s lu (Vol. m. p. 726) tlmt tlie water of tlic Caribbean 
Sta ia 50 DaDiparent, that cortiU and fish are discEmible nt a dpfith of sixtf 
&amp;tboini. The thip (cemcil to float io air, the navii^ator became giddj bj 
his eye penetrated through the rrystal flood, and bclield Biibmarinc gardens, 
or b«d* of iholls, or gilded ûiHiea gliiling among tutus and lUicVtU of war 




nmoouoT m noua*. 



wild figs, flowering niTitleB, uettaoMi, snd deantUn, yrtêàt 
were hnng with festoons of tsbooi climUn^çlsnta, eorand 
with âowors, a nmltitoda a^ fairdi unknown in Bimpc 

displayed their bri^t plnmage, guttering willi JiBfU amA. 
aznre, and mingled thair warbling with the hatmonyaf a 
world teeming with life and motion.* 

Underneath Uiis brilliant exterior, deaih was concealed. 
Bat this fiict was not tfien known, and the air of then 
cUmatea bad so enervating an influence, that man, ab&gt; 
Borbed by present enjoyment, was rendered regaidleas of 
the flitore. 

North America appeared mider a very different aspect î 
there, everything was grave, serious, and solemn ; it seemed 
created to be the domain of intelligence, as the Soath was 
that of sensual delight. A turbulent and fuggy ocean 
washed its shores. It was ^rt round by a belt of granitic 
rocks, or by wide tracts of sand. The foliage of its woods 
was dark and gloomy; for they were composed of fir», 
larches, evei^reen oaks, wild olive-trees, and laurels.f 

Beyond this outer belt lay the thick shades of the central 
forests, where the largest trees which are produced in the 
two hemispheres grow side by side. The plane, the catalpa, 
the supar-maple, and the Virginian poplar mingled thmr 
branchea with those of the oak, the beech, and the lime. 

In these, as in the forests of the Old World, dcstraction 
was perpetually going on. The ruins of vegetation were 
heaped upon each other ; but there was no laboring hand 
to remove them, and their decay was not rapid enon^ 
to make room for the .continual work of reproduction. 
Climbing ])lants, grasses, and other herbs forced their way 
through the mass of dying trees; they crept along their 
bending tninks, found nourishment in their dusty cavitiea, 

• Sm Appendix B. 

t Th««e iro not good tpedmeiu of tbe tnei on our Atlantic cout Ha, 
pine*, i^prcHO, while and lire oalu, woold have bean ■ better 
—Ajf-Sp. 



EXTEBIOB FORM OF NORTH AMERICA. 25 

and a passage beneath the lifeless bark. Thus decay gave 
its assistance to life, and their respective productions were 
mingled together. The depths of these forests were gloomy 
and obscure, and a thousand rivulets, undirected in their 
course by human industry, preserved in them a constant 
moisture. It was rare to meet with flowers, wild fruits, or 
birds, beneath their shades. The fall of a tree overthrown 
by age, the rushing torrent of a cataract, the lowing of the 
boffîJo, and the howling of the wind, were the only sounds 
which broke the silence of nature. 

To the east of the great river, the woods almost dis- 
appeared ; in their stead were seen prairies of immense 
extent. Whether Nature in her infinite variety had denied 
the germs of trees to these fertile plains, or whether they 
had once been covered with forests, subsequently destroyed 
by the hand of man, is a question which neither tradition 
nor scientific research has been able to answer. 

These immense deserts were not, however, wholly un- 
tenanted by men. Some wandering tribes had been for 
ages scattered among the forest shades or the green pas- 
tures of the prairie. From the mouth of the St. Lawrence 
to the Delta of the Mississippi, and from the Atlantic to 
the Pacific Ocean, these savages possessed certain points of 
resemblance which bore witness of their common oricnn : 
but at the same time, they difiered from all other known 
races of men ; * they were neither white like the Europeans, 

* With the progress of discovery, some resemblance has been found to 
exist between the physical confonnation, the language, and the liabits of the 
Indians of North America, and those of the Tongous, Mantclious, Moguls, 
Tatars, and other wandering tribes of Asia. The land occupied by these 
tribes is not very distant from Behring's Strait; which allows of tlie suppo- 
sition, that at a remote period they gave inhabitants to the desert continent 
of America. But this is a point which has not yet been clearly elucidated 
by science. See Malte Brun, Vol. V. ; the works of Humboldt ; Fischer, 
" Conjecture sur l'Origine des Américains " ; Adair, ** History of the Amer- 
ican Indians." 

i) 



26 DEMOGRAOT m AMEBIOA. 

nor yellow like most ^of the Asiatics, nor black lik» Ûmê 
n^roes. Their skin was reddish brown, their hair Img 
and shining, their lips thin, and their cheekbones VÊKjt 
prominent. The languages spoken bj the North Amam 
can tribes were varions as fiur as regarded their words, but 
tliey were snbject to the same grammatical mles. Theaa 
rules differed in several points from such as had been 
observed to govern the cmghi of language. The idiom 
of the Americans seemed to be the product of new conn 
binations ; and bespoke an effixrt of the understanding, of 
which the Indians of our days would be incapable.^ 

The social state of these tribes differed also in JosBy 
respects from all that was seen in the Old Worid. Thej 
seem to have multiplied freely in the midst of their deserts, 
without coming in contact with other races more civilized 
than tlieir own. Accordingly, they exhibited none of those 
indistinct, incoherent notions of right and wrong, none of 
that deep corruption of manners, which is usually joined 
with ignorance and rudeness among nations who, afler 
advancing to civilization, have relapsed into a state of 
barbarism. The Indian was indebted to no one but him- 
self ; his virtues, his vices, and his prejudices were his own 
work ; he had grown up in the wild independence of his 
nature. 

If, in polished countries, the lowest of the people are 
rude and uncivil, it is not merely because they are poor 
and ignorant, but that, being so, they are in daily contact 
^ with rich and enlightened men. The sight of their own 
hard lot and their weakness, which is daily contrasted with 
the happiness and power of some of their fellow-creatures, 
excites in their hearts at the same time the sentiments of 
anger and of fear : the consciousness of their inferiority and 
their dependence irritates wliile it humiliates them. Tliis 
state of mind displays itself in their manners and language ; 

* See Appendix C. 



Mi 



EXTERIOR FORM OF NORTH AMERICA. 27 

they are at once insolent and servile. The truth of this is 
easily proved by observation : the people are more rude in 
aristocratic countries than elsewhere ; in opulent cities than 
in rural districts. In those places where the rich and 
powerful are assembled together, the weak and the indi- 
gent feel themselves oppressed by their inferior condition. 
Unable to perceive a single chance of regaining their equal- 
ity, they give up to despair, and allow themselves to fall 
below the dignity of human nature. 

This unfortunate effect of the disparity of conditions is 
not observable in savage life: the Indians, although they 
are ignorant and poor, are equal and free. 

When Europeans first came among them, the natives of 
North America were ignorant of the value of riches, and 
indifferent to the enjoyments whicli civdlized man procures 
to himself by their means. Nevertheless there was nothing 
coarse in their demeanor; they practised an habitual re- 
serve, and a kind of aristocratic politeness. 

Mild and hospitable when at peace, though merciless in 
war beyond any known degree of human ferocity, the 
Indian would expose himself to die of hunger in order to 
succor the stranger who asked admittance by night at the 
door of his hut ; yet he could teai* in pieces with his hands 
the still quivering Kmbs of Ids prisoner. The famous re- 
publics of antiquity never gave examj)les of more unshaken 
courage, more haughty spirit, or more intractable love of 
independence, than were hidden in fonner times among 
the wild forests of the New World.* The Europeans pro- 

• We learn from President Jefferson's "Notes upon Virginia," (p. 148,) 
that among the Iroquois, when attacked by a superior force, aged men re- 
fused to fly, or to survive the destruction of tlieir country ; and they braved 
death like the ancient Komans when their capital was sacked by the Gauls. 
Further on, (p. 150,) he tells us that there is no example of an Indian, who, 
having &amp;IleQ into the hands of his enemies, begged for Us life; on the 
contrary, the captive sought to obtain death at the hands of liis conquerors 
by the use of insult and provocation. 



• 1 



duced no great nqpmiiott ^viMi iiMj^IaiiM;îafQtt:^JiHr. 
shores of North Aiiifii!i€âi^;liifiir. présence ipigotidind: In|4 
ther envy nor fear. What inflnMoe ooold diegr péHMI 
over such men as we hxve descnb^f 1^ Inébii eodUl 
Ure without wants, suflFer wilhoat i^^^ fmxtmé 

his death^ong at the stake.* like iH the odier meinMi. 
of the great human fionity, fiheee Mmigee helmed in ibt 
existence of a hettef w&lt;Mrid, and adored, imder diflfarenl 
names, God, the Creator of ihe univeane. Their ikoAmm 
on the great inteUectnal tmâ» were in general simple anS 
philosophical, f 

Although we ha^e here traced the eharaéter fsi a priit-* 
itive people, yet it cannot be doubted that anoAier pécfjpkii 
more civilized and more advanced in aD respects, had pr» 
ceded it in the same regions. 

An obscure tradition which prevailed among the Indians 
on the borders of the Atlantic, informs us that these very 
tribes formerly dwelt on the west side of the Mississippi. 
Along the banks of the Ohio, and throughout the central 
valley, there are frequently found, at this day, tumvli raised 
by the hands of men. On exploring these heaps of earth 
to their centre, it is usual to meet with human bones, 
strange instruments, arms and utensils of all kinds, made 
of metal, and destined for purposes unknown to the pres- 
ent race. 

The Indians of our time are unable to give any infor- 
mation relative to the history of this unknown people. 
Neither did those who lived three hundred years ago, when 
America was first discovered, leave any accounts from 

* See "Histoire de U Louisiane/' by Lepage Dupratz; Charlevoix, 
"Histoire de la Nouvelle France " ; "Lettres du Rev. G. Heckewelder" 
" Transactions of the American Philosophical Society," Vol. I. ; JcfièrBon's 
"Notes on Virginia," pp. 135-190. What is said by Jefferson is of ea» 
pecial weight, on account of the personal merit of the writer, of his peculiar 
position, and of the matter-of-fact ago in which he lived. 

/ See Appendix D, 



*■ ;1 
1 ■ 

■J! 



^1 



EXTEBIOB FOfiM OF NORTH AMERICA. 29 

which even an hypothesis oould be formed. Tradition — 
that perishable jet ever renewed monument of the pristine 
world — throws no light upon the subject. It is an un- 
doubted &amp;ct, however, that in this part of the globe thou- 
sands of our fellow-beings once lived. When they came 
hither, what was their origin, their destiny, their history, 
when and how they perished, no one can tell. 

How strange does it appear that nations have existed, 
and afterwards so completely disappeared from the earth 
that the memory even of their names is effaced I their lan- 
guages are lost ; their glory is vanished like a sound with- 
out an echo ; though perhaps there is not one which has 
not lefl behind it some tomb in memory of its passage. 
Thus the most durable monument of human labor is that 
which recalls the wretchedness and nothingness of man. 

Although the vast country which we have been de- 
scribing was inhabited by many indigenous tribes, it may 
justly be said, at the time of its discovery by Europeans, 
to have formed one great desert. The Indians occupied, 
without possessing it. It is by agricultural labor that man 
appropriates the soil, and the early inhabitants of North 
America lived by the produce of the chase. Their impla- 
cable prejudices, their uncontrolled passions, their vices, 
and still more, perhaps, their savage virtues, consigned 
them to inevitable destruction. The ruin of these tribes 
began from the day when Europeans landed on their 
shores : it has proceeded ever since, and we are now wit- 
nessing the completion of it. They seem to have been 
placed by Providence amidst the riches of the New World 
only to enjoy them for a season ; they w^ere there merely 
to wait till others came. Those coasts, so admirably 
adapted for commerce and industry ; those wide and deep 
rivers; that inexhaustible valley of the Mississippi; the 
whole continent, in short, seemed prepared to be the abode 
of a great nation yet imbom. 



80 



0tlfOGEAOT m ÀUEtaOA. 



In that land the great experiment was. to lie madoi bf 
dvilized man, of the attempt to 'conatmct Bodetj upon a 
new basis ; and it was there, for the first time, Âat llieo» 
ries hitherto unknown, or deemed impracticable, were to 
exhibit a spectacle for which the world had not been pre* 
pared by the history of the past. 



^-f- ■ ■ ..«_■■■ - _ .. . .^ .- 



ORIGIN OF THE ANGLO-AMEBICANS. SI 



CHAPTER II. 

ORIGIN OF THE ANGLO-AMERICANS, AND IMPORTANCE OF THIS 
ORIGIN IN RELATION TO THEIR FUTURE CONDITION. 

Utiiity of knowing the Origin of Nations, in order to understand their So- 
cial Condition and their LawB. — America the only Conntry in which 
the Starting-point of a great People has been clearly observable. — In 
what Kcspcots all who emigrated to British America were similar. — In 
what they difibred. — Remark applicable to all the Europeans who estab- 
lished themselves on the Shores of the New World. — Colonization of 
Virginia. — Colonization of New England. — Original Character of the 
first Inhabitants of New England. — Their Arrival. — Their first I^aws. 
— Their Social Contract. — Penal Code borrowed from the Hebrew 
Legislation. — Religious Fervor. — Republican Spirit — Intimate Union 
of the Spirit of Religion with the Spirit of Liberty. 

AFTER the birth of a human being, hîs early years 
are obscurely spent în the toils or pleasures of child- 
hood. As he grows up, the world receives him, when his 
manhood begins, and he enters into contact with his fel- 
lows. He is then studied for the first time, and it is 
imagined that the germ of the vices and the virtues of his 
maturer years is then formed. 

This, if I am not mistaken, is a great error. We must 
begin higher up ; we must watch the infent in his mother's 
arms; we must see the first images which the external 
world casts upon the dark mirror of his mind, the first oc- 
currences which he witnesses ; we must hear the first 
words which awaken the sleeping powers of thought, and 
stand by his earliest efforts, — if we would understand the 
prejudices, the habits, and the passions which will rule Ida 



82 DDfOGRAOT IN AimSGA. 

life. The entire man is, so to speak, to be seen in tlie din 

die of the child. 

The growth of nations presents something analogooa to 
this ; they all bear some marks of their origin. Tlie di^ 
cumstanccs wliich accompanied their birth and 
to their development affect the whole term of their 

If we were able to go back to the elements of states, and 
to examine tlie oldest monimients of their history, I doobt 
not that we should discover in them the primal canae of 
tlie prejudices, the habits, the mling passions, and, in short, 
of all that constitutes what is called the national charactiBil 
We should there find the explanation of certain cnstomr 
which now seem at variance with the prevailing manners ; 
of such laws as conflict with established principles ; and of 
such incoherent opinions as ai'e here and there to be met 
with in society, like those fragments of broken chains 
which we sometimes see hanging from the vaults of an old 
edifice, and supporting nothing. This might explain tlie 
destinies of certain nations which seem borne on by an un- 
known force to ends of which tliey themselves are igno- 
rant. But hitherto flxcts have been wanting to researches 
of this kind: the spirit of inquiry has only come upon 
communities in their latter days ; and when they at length 
contemplât »h1 their origin, time had already obscured it, 
or ignorance ; nd jiride adorned it with truth-concealing 
fiibles. 

America is the only country in which it has been possi- 
ble to witness the natural and tranquil growth of society, 
and whore the influence exercised on the future condition 
of states by their origin is clearly distinguishable. 

At the period when the peoples of Europe landed in the 
New World, their national characteristics were already 
completely formed ; each of them had a ])hysiognomy of 
its own ; and as they had already attained tliat stage of 
civilization at which men are led to study themselves, they 



OBiam OP THE ANGLO-AMERICANS. 33 

kve transmitted to ns a faithfiil picture of their opinions, 
âieir manners, and their laws. The men of the sixteenth 
a^tuiy are almost as well known to us as our eontemporar 
lies. America, consequently, exhibits in the broad light 
«f day the phenomena which the ignorance or rudeness of 
earlier ages conceals &amp;om our researches. Near enough to 
the time when the states of America were founded, to be 
accurately acquainted with their elements, and sufficiently 
removed from that period to judge of some of their results, 
the men of our own day seem destined to see further than 
their predecessors into the series of human events. Provi- 
dence has given us a torch which our forefatlifers did not 
possess, and has allowed us to discern fundamental causes 
in the history of the world which the obscurity of the past 
concealed from them. 

If we carefully examine the social and political state of 
America, afler having studied its history, we shall remain 
perfectly convinced that not an opinion, not a custom, not 
a law, I may even say not an event, is upon record which 
the ori^ of that people will not explain. The readers of 
this book will find in the present chapter the germ of all 
that is to follow, and the key to almost the whole work. 

The emigrants who came at different periods to occupy 
the territory now covered by the American Union differed 
£rom each other in many respects ; their aim was not the 
same, and they governed themselves on different principles. 

These men had, however, certain features in common, 
and they were all placed in an analogous- situation. The 
tie of language is, perhaps, the strongest and the most du- 
rable that can unite mankind. All the emigrants spoke 
the same tongue ; they were all offsets from the same peo- 
ple. Bom in a country which had been agitated for cen- 
turies by the struggles of faction, and in wliicli all parties 
had been obliged in their turn to place themselves under 

the protection of the laws, their political education had 

2# o 



-&lt; 



84 DEHOGBAOT IN AMEBIOA. . . 

been perfected in this rode schodl; and they wean joam 
conversant with the notions of rig^it, and the principlea of 
true fireedom, than the greater part a( their European cqik 
temporaries. At the period of the first émigrations» the 
township system, that firaitfol germ of &amp;ee instttalions, was 
deeply rooted in the haHts of the English ; and with it 
the doctrine of the soverrâgnly of the people had been m- 
troduced into the bosom of the monarchy of the house 
of Tudor. 

The religious quarrels which have agitated the Christian 
world were then rife. Eln^and had plnnged into the new 
order of thTngs with headlong vehemence. The character 
of its inhabitants, which had always been sedate and veAa^ 
tive, became argumentative and austere. General informa- 
tion had been increased by intellectual contests, and the 
mind had received in them a deeper cultivation. Whilst 
religion was the topic of discussion, the morals of the people 
became more pure. All these national features are more 
or less discoverable in the physiognomy of those English- 
men who came to seek a new home on the opposite shores 
of the Atlantic. 

Another remark, to which we shall hereafter have occa- 
sion to recur, is applicable not only to the English, but to 
the French, the Spaniards, and all the Europeans who 
successively established themselves in the New World. All 
these European colonies contained the elements, if not the 
development, of a complete democracy. Two causes led to 
this result. It may be said generally, that on leaving the 
mother country the emigrants had, in general, no notion of 
superiority one over another. The happy and tlie powerful 
do not go into exile, and there are no surer guaranties of 
equality among men than poverty and misfortune. It hap- 
pened, however, on several occasions, that persons of rank 
were driven to America by political and religious quarrels. 
Laws were made to establish a gradation of ranks ; but it 



OKIGIN or THE ANGLO-AMERICANS. 85 

waa soon fotrnd that the soil of America was opposed to a 
territorial aristocracy. To bring that refractory land into 
cnltivation, the constant and interested exertions of thn 
owner liimself were necessary ; and when the ground was 
prepared, its produce waa found to be insufficient to enrich 
a proprietor and a fermer at the same time. The land was 
then naturally broken up into small portions, which the 
proprietor cultivated for himself. Land .is the basis of an 
aristocracy, which clings to the soil that supports it ; for 
it is not by privileges alone, nor by birth, but by landed 
property handed down from generation to generation, that 
an aristocracy is constituted. A nation may present im- 
mense fortunes and extreme wretchedness ; but unless those 
fortunes are territorial, there is no true aristocracy, but 
simply the class of the rich and tliat of the poor. 

All the British colonies had then a great degree of femily , 
likeness at the epoch of their settlement. All of them, from 
their beginning, seemed destined to witness the growth, not 
of the aristocratic liberty of their mother country, but «rf 
that freedom of the middle and lower orders of which the 
history of tlie world had aa yet ftimished no complete 
example. 

In this general uniformity, however, several striking 
differences were discernible, wliich it is necessary to point 
out. Two branches may be distinguished in the great 
Anglo-American family, which have hitherto grown up 
without entirely commingling ; the one in the South, the 
other in the Korth. 

Virpnia received the first English colony ; the emigrants 
took possession of it in 1607. The idea that mines of gold 
and silver are the soifrces of national wealth was at that 
time singularly prevalent in Enrope ; a fatal delusion, which 
has done more to impoverish the European nations who 
adopted it, and lias cost more lives in America, than the 
united iuBuence of war and bad laws. The men sent to 



36 DEMOCBACY IN AMERICA. 

Virginia • were aeokcrs of gold, adventurers without re- 
sources and without cliaracter, whoso turbulent aud resb- 
lefls spirit endangered the înSmt colony ,t and rendered its 
progresa uncertain. Artisans and agriculturists arrived 
afternards; and, although they were a more moral and 
orderly race of men, they were hardly in any reaped 
abo\*e the level of the inferior classes in England.J No 
iotty views, no spiritual conception, presided over the 
foundation of these new settlements. The colony waa 
scarcely established when slavery was introduced ; fj this 
was the capital fact which was to exercise an immense in- 
fluence on the character, the laws, and the whole future 
of the South. Slavery, as we shall afterwards show, dift- 
honor? labor : it introduces idleness into society, and with 
idleness, ignorance and pride, luxury and distress. It ener&lt; 
vatcs the powers of the mind, and benumbs the ictÎTity 
of man. The influence t^ slavery, united to the English 

• The eliHter granted bj the crown of England in 1609 slipnlalad, 
amongst other conations, that Ûti adrentnncrs «bonid ftj to tbe etown ft 
flfth of the produce of all gold and nlrcr minea. Ste Manhall'a Ufe of 
Wutiington, Vol. I. pp. 18~GG. 

t A large portioa of the adTentoren, Baji Stith (Hulorj of Vugini»), 
were unprincipled jonng men of famllj, irhom their parent! wera glad to 
«hip off in order to uve them horn an ignominionB fate, diacbaiged mt- 
TantB, frandnlent bankrupts, debaachees, and othen of the aame claM, peo- 
ple more apt to piUago and deetro^ than to promote the welbre of tbs 
wtttement. Seditions leadera easily enticed this band into evei7 kind of 
«Ktravagance and exceaa. See for the hiator; of Virginia the fbllowing 

" Bixtor? of Virginia, from the Flitt Settlementa in the Tear 1SS4," bj 

" History of Virginia," bj William Stith, 
" History of Virginia, from the Bailiest Praiod," by BcTsriey, 
t It waa not till some time later that a certain number of rich Engjiib 
Afdialiata came to establiah themaelves in the colony. 

• % BltiTery wa* introdnced aboat tbe ye«r 1620, hy a Dutch tww I . 
thlUeh landed twenty negroet oa the banka of the James BÎTer. Bm 
BOUImers. 






ORIGIN OF THE ANGLO-AMERICANS. 37 

character, explains the manners and the social condition of 
the Southern States. J 

In the North, the same English character as liie ground 
received totally different colj^rs. Here I may be allowed 
to enter into some details. 

In the Enghsh colonies of the North, more generally 
known as the States of New England,* the two or three 
main ideas which now constitute the basis of the social 
theory of the United States were first combined. The 
principles of New England spread at first to the neigh- 
boring States ; they then passed successively to the more 
distant ones ; and at last, if I may so speak, they inter- 
fenetrated the whole confederation. They now extend 
their influence beyond its limits, over the whole American 
world. The civilization of New England has been like a 
beacon lit upon a hill, which, after it has diffused its 
warmth immediately aroimd it, also tinges the distant; 
horizon with its glow. 

The foundation of New England was a novel spectacle, I 
and all the circumstances attending it were singular and 
original. Nearly all colonies have been first inhabited, 
either by men without education and without resources, 
driven by their poverty and their misconduct firom the 
land which gave them birth, or by speculators and adven- 
turers greedy of gain. Some settlements cannot even 
boast so honorable an origin ; St. Domingo was founded 
by buccaneers ; and, at the present day, the criminal 
courts of England supply the population of Australia. 

The settlers who established themselves on the shores of 
New England all belonged to the more independent classes 
of their native country. Their union on the soil of Amer- 

* The States of New England are those situated to the east of the Hod- 
son. Thej are now six in namber: — 1. Connecticut; 2. Rhode Island; 
3. Massachusetts ; 4. New Hampshire ; 5. Vermont ; 6. Maine. [The last 
two, as distinct States, are of comparativel/ recent origin.] 



88 



DEMOCRACY IS AMEEICA. 



^ 
) 



ica at ooce presented the singular [ilienamenon of a society \ 
containing neither lords nor coimnon people, and we may I 
almost saj, nether rich nor poor. These men possessed, { 
in proportion to their aiimher, a greater mass of inteliî» 
gence than is to be tumid in any European nation of oas i 
own time. All, [icrhaps without a single exception, had I 
received a good education, and many of them were known J 
in Europe for tlieir talents and their actjuirementâ. Thai] 
other colonies luil been founded by adventurer without. I 
&amp;milies; the emigrants of Isevr England brought with i 
them the best elements of order and morahty ; they landed A 
on the desert coast accompanied by thrâr wives and cIuIt ■ \ 
dren. But what especially distinguished them jirom aUtJ 
others was the aHm uf ihoir underiakict;. Tliey had not " 
been obliged by n^ . i.-.-it_;' t., I.mm.- llicir cumitry; tlie social 
position they abandoned was one to be regretted, and thor 
means of subsistence were certain. Nor did they cross tba 
Atlantic to improve their situation or to increase their 
wealth ; it was a p urely intellectual craving, which called 
them &amp;om the comforU of l^eir former hcones ; and in 
&amp;cing the inevitable sniFerings of exile, their object waa 
t he triu mph of an idea. 
—"'TTie emigrants, or, as they deservedly s^Ied themselvco, 
the Pilgrims, belonged to that English sect the ansteritjr 
of whose principles had acquired for them the name t£ . ■ 
Puritans. Puritanism was not merely a reli^ous doctrine, 
but it corresponded in many pointa with the moat abstdnte 
democratic and repu bhcan 'theories. It was this tendency 
which had aroused its most dangerous adversaries. Perse- 
cuted by the government of the mother country, and di»* 
gusted by the habits of a socie^ which the rigor of their 
own principles condemned, the Puritans went forth to seek 
some rude and unfrequented part of the world, where they 
could live according to their own opinions, and worship 
Ood in &amp;eedom. 



ORIGIN OF THE ÂNGLO-AMEBICAKS. 89 

A few qnotations will throw more light upon the spirit 
of these pious adventurers than all that we can say of 
them. Nathaniel Morton,* the historian of the first years 
of the settlement, thus opens his subject : — 

"Gentle Keader, — I have for some length of time 
looked upon it as a duty incumbent especially on the im- 
mediate successors of those that have had so large expe- 
rience of those many memorable and signal demonstrations 
of God's goodness, viz. the first beginners of this Planta- 
tion in New England, to commit to writing his gracious 
dispensations on that behalf; having so many inducements 
thereunto, not only otherwise, but so plentifully in the 
Sacred Scriptures : that so, what we have seen, and what 
our fathers have told us (Psalm Ixxviii. 3, 4), we may not 
hide firom our children, showing to the generations to come 
the praises of the Lord ; that especially the seed of Abra- 
ham his servant, and the children of Jacob his chosen 
(Psalm cv. 6, 6), may remember his marvellous works in 
the beginning and progress of the planting of New Eng- 
land, his wonders and the judgments of his mouth ; how 
that God brought a vine into this wilderness ; that he cast 
out the heathen, and planted it ; that he made room for it 
and caused it to take deep root; and it filled the land 
(Psalm Ixxx. 8, 9). And not only so, but also that he 
hath guided his people by his strength to his holy habita- 
tion, and planted them in the moimtain of his inheritance 
in respect of precious Gospel enjoyments: and that as 
especially God may have the glory of all unto whom it is 
most due ; so also some rays of glory may reach the names 
of those blessed Saints, that were the main instruments 
and the beginning of this happy enterprise." 

It is impossible to read this opening paragraph without 
an involuntary feeling of religious awe ; it breathes the 

• "New England's Memorial," p. 13 (Boston, 1826). See also Hutch- 
inson's Histoiy, Vol. IL p. 440. 



40 mHOGRAOT IN AMEnOA, 

Tory savor of Goqpel antiqiiity. The nndCRtj of d» 
author heightens his power of langnige. Ik odr ejm^ m 
well m in his own, it was not a mere party of adventuien 
gone forth to seek their fortune beyond seas, bat the gem 
of a great nation wafted by Providence to a predesdned 
shore. 

The author conlinnes, and thus describeB the depattm 
of the first pilgrims: — 

'^ So they left that goodly and pleasant dty of Leyden,* 
which had been their resting-plaoe fat above eleven yean ; 
but they knew that they were pilgrims and strangers here 
below, and looked not much on these things, bat lifted np 
their eyes to heaven, their dearest conntry, where Qoi 
hath prepared fi^ them a cSij (Heb. xi. 16), and thereii^ 
quieted their spirits. When they came to Del&amp;*Havea 
they found the ship and all things ready ; and such of their 
firiends as could not come with them followed after them, 
and sundry come from Amsterdam to see them shipt, and 
to take their leaves of them. One night was spent with 
little sleep with the most, but with friendly entertainment 
and Christian discourse, and other real expressions of true 
Christian love. The next day they went on board, and 
their friends with them, where truly doleftd was the sight 
of that sad and moumftd parting, to hear what sighs and 
sobs and prayers did sound amongst them ; what tears did 
gush from every eye, and pithy speeches pierced each 

* The emigrants were, for the most part, godlj Christians finm the 
northern [central] part of England, who had quitted their native conntcy be- 
cause thej were " studious of reformation, and entered into coYonant to walk 
with one another according to the primitiye pattern of the Word of Gk&gt;d." 
They emigrated to Holland, and settled in the city of Lcyden in 1610, 
where they abode, being lovingly re sp ec te d by the Dutch, for many years : 
they left it in 1620 for several reasons, the last of which was, that their pot- 
terity would in a few generations become Dutch, and so lose their interest in 
the English nation ; they being desirous rather to enlai^go his Migesty's do 
minions, and to live under their natural prince. — Tnaulakn-'e Note, 



M»'«"t ^ ■ ' ■^ ^jj ja— ■^^ - ■— ■ 



ORIGIN OF THE ANGLO-AMERICANS. 41 

other's heart, that sundry of the Dutch strangers that 
stood on the Key as spectators could not refrain from tears. 
But the tide (which stays for no man) calling them away, 
that were thus loth to depart, their Reverend Pastor, falling 
down on his knees, and they aU with him, with watery 
cheeks commended them with most fervent prayers unto 
the Lord and his blessing ; and then with mutual embraces 
and many tears they took their leaved one of another, 
which proved to be the last leave to many of them." 

The emigrants were ahont 150 in number, including the 
women and the children. Their object was to plant a col- 
ony on the shores of the Hudson ; but after having been 
driven about for some time in the Atlantic Ocean, they 
were forced to land on the arid coast of New England, at 
the spot which is now the town of Plymputh. The rock 
is still shown on which the pilgrims disembarked.* 

'* But before we pass on," continues our historian, " let 
the reader with me make a pause, and seriously consider this 
poor people's present condition, the more to be raised up to 
admiration of God's goodness towards them in their pres- 
ervation : for being now passed the vast ocean, and a sea 
of troubles before them in expectation, they had now no 
friends to welcome them, no inns to entertain or refresh 
them, no houses, or much less towns, to repair unto to seek 
for succour : and for the season it was winter, and they that 
know the winters of the country know them to be sharp 
and violent, subject to cruel and fierce storms, dangerous 
to travel to known places, much more to search unknown 
coasts. Besides, what could they see but a hideous and 

* This rock has become an object of veneratioii in the United States. I 
have seen bits of it carefully prescnred in several towns of the Union. Does 
not this sufficiently show how all human power and greatness are entirely in 
the soul ? Here is a stone which the feet of a few poor fugitives pressed for 
an instant, and this stone becomes famous ; it is treasured by a great nation, 
a fragment is prized as a reUc. But what is become of the doorsteps of a 
âioiuand palaces ? YHio troahlea himaéif about them \ 



42 DEMOCEACy IN ASKRICA. 

desolate wilderness, full of wilde beasts, and wildti men ? 
and what multitudes of them there were, tliey then knev 
not: for which way soever they turned their eyes (save 
upward to Heaven) they could have but little solaco or 
content in respect of any outward object; lor summer 
being ended, all things stand in appearance with a weather- 
lieaten face, and the whole country, full of woods and 
thickets, represented a wild and savage hew ; if they 
looked behind them, there was the mighty oeean whicli 
they had passed, and was now as a main bar or giiljih to 
separate them trom all the civil parts of the world." * 

It must not be imagined that the piety of the Piiritana 
was merely speculative, or that it took no cognizance of 
the course of worldly affairs. Puritanism, as I have aL&gt; 
ready R'miirked, was scarcely less a pohtical ilian a relig&gt; 
, ious doctrine. J4^o sooner had the emigrants lande d ok 
* the barren coast described by Nathaniel Morton, than it 
was their Brst care to constitute a society, by subscriluilg 
the following Act ; — 

" In the name of God. Amen. We, whose names, 
are uiiderwritten, the loyal subjects of onr dread Soveredgn 
Lord King James, &amp;c. Sui^ Having undertaken for the 
glory of God, and adTaaeesieDt of the Christian Faith, and 
the honour of our King and country, a voyage to plant the 
first colony in the northern parts of Virginia ; Do by these 
presents solemnly and mutually, in the presence of God 
and one another, covenant and comlune ourselves together 
into a civil body politick, fi&gt;r our better ordering and pres- 
ervation, and furtherance of the ends aforesaid : and hy 

* Thoogb the work from whidi the foregoing extracts are taken tppeani 
nnder the dtle of "New Englind'i Memorial," m written b^ NMhanM 
Morion, it wu compiled by bim cbleflj from the maniucripts of William 
Bradford, who vat one of the leaden of the Filgiimi daring their stay in 
HolUod, and was eteded the goTcmor of their settlement at Pljmonll^ 
which office he continaed to hold tor many years. The langonge in then 
extnctt ia almost entirol? that of Bradford. — Am. Ed. 



m*-- 



OBIGIK OF THE ANGLO-AMERICANS. 43 

virtue hereof do enact, constitute, and frame such just and 
equal laws, ordinances, acts, constitutions, and offices, from 
time to time, as shall be thought most meet and convenient 
for the general good of the Colony : unto which we prom- 
ise all due submission and obedience," &amp;c.* 

This happened in 1620, and from that time forwards the 
emigration went on. The religious and poUtical passions 
which ravaged the British empire during the whole rei^ 
of Charles I. drove fresh crowds of sectarians every year 
to the shores of America. In England, the stronghold of 
Puritanism continued to be in the middle classes ; and it 
was from the middle classes that most of the emigrants 
came. The population of New England increased rapidly ; 
and whilst the hierarchy of rank despotically classed the 
inhabitants of the mother country, the colony approximated 
more and more the novel spectacle of a comiïîunity homo- 
geneous in all its parts. A democracy, more perfect than 
antiquity had dared to dream of, started in full size and 
panoply from the midst of an ancient feudal society. 

The English government was not dissatisfied with a 
large emigration which removed the elements of fresh 
discord and ftirther revolutions. On the contrary, it did 
everything to encourage it, and seemed to have no anxiety 
about the destiny of those who sought a shelter on the soil 
of America from the rigor of their laws. It appeared as 
if New England was a region ^ven up to the dreams of 
Êuicy, and the unrestrained experiments of innovators. 

The English colonies (and this is one of the main causes 
of their prosperity) have always enjoyed more internal 
freedom and more political independence than the colonies 

* The emigrants who founded the State of Rhode Island in 1638, those 
who landed at New Haven in 1637, the first settlers in Connecticut in 1639, 
and the founders of Providence in 1640, hegan in like manner by drawing 
up a social contract, which was acceded to by all the interested parties. See 
Pitkin's History, pp. 42 and 47. 



44 DEMOCBACT' IN AMERICA. 

of other nations ; and this principle of Uberly was nowhei 
more extensively applied than in the States of New Eiag 
land. 

It was generally allowed at that period, that the tenritd 
ries of the New World belonged to that European natioi 
which had been the first to discover them. Nearly t 
whole coast of North America thus beciirae a British poa 
seaaion towards ttie end of the sixteenth century. 
means used by the Enghsh government to people thei 
new domains were of several kinds : the king eoinetimel| 
appointed a governor of his own choice, who ruled a 
tion of the New World in tlie name and under the immo' 
diate orders of the crown ; " this is the colonial syste 
adopted by the other countries of Europe. Sonielimes,.^ 
grants of certain tracts were made by the cro 
dividoal or to a company,t ùi which case all the civil and' 
political power fell into the hands of one or more persons; 
who, under the inspection and control of the crown, scJd 
the lands and governed the inhabitants. Lastly, a third 
system consisted in allowing a certun number of emigranti 
to form themselves into a political society under the pro* 
tection of the mother country, and to govern themselves 
in whatever was not contrary to her laws. This mode of 
colonization, so favorable to liber^, was adopted only in 
New England.^ 

■ ThiewMthecMein theStinofNeirTork. 

t Maryland, tlie CaroUoM, Penniflraun, uid New Jenej ««n in ddt 
ntiutioo. See Pitkin's Hiitory, Vol. I. pp. Il -31. 

t See the work entitled ^^i HiHorical Collection of State Pi{)en mi 
other anthcntic Documenta Enteuded as H&amp;tcrials for an Histoij of tbt 
nnilcd States of America, bj Ebenezor Hazard," (Philadelphia, 179%) ftr 
• great nnmber of docnmeQU lelatiiig to the commencement of the coloiûëi, 
which are valnable fiom their contents and their anthentid^: amoDgff 
them aie the Tarions charte» gnuited b^ the king of England, aqd tta 
fint acta of the local goTermoenU. 

See also the analjsii of all these duiten given bj Mr. Storj, Jndge of 



ORIGIN OF THE ANGLO-AMERICANS. 45 

In 1628,* a charter of this kînd was granted by Charles 
I. to the emigrants who went to form the colony of Mass»- 
chosetts. But, in general, charters were not given to the 
colonies of New England till their existence had bec&lt;Mne 
an established feet. Plymouth, Providence, New Haven, 
Connecticut, and Rhode Island f were founded without the 
help, and almost without the knowledge, of the mother 
country. The new settlers did not derive their powers 
fix&gt;m the head of the empire, although they did not deny 
its supremacy ; they constituted themselves into a society, 
and it was not till thirty or forty years afterwards, imder 
Charles 11., that their existence was legally recognized by 
a royal charter. 

This frequently renders it difficult, in studying the ear- 
liest historical and legislative records of New England, to 
detect the link which connected the emigrants with the 
land of their forefathers. They continually exercised the 
rights of sovereignty ; they named their magistrates, con- 
cluded peace or declared war, made police regulations, and 
enacted laws, as if their allegiance was due only to God. J 
Nothing can be more curious, and at the same time more 
instructive, than the legislation of that period ; it is there 
that the solution of the great social problem which the 
United States now present to the world is to be found. 

the Supreme Court of the United States, in the Introduction to his '* Com- 
mentaries on the Constitution of the United States/' It is proved by these 
documents, that the principles of representative government and the external 
forms of political liberty were introduced into all the colonies almost from 
their origin. These principles were more fully acted upon in the North 
than in the South, but they existed everywhere. 

» See Pitkin's History, p. 35. Also, the " History of the Colony of 
Massachusetts Bay," by Hutchinson, Vol. I. p. 9. 

t See Pitkm's History, pp. 42, 47. 

I The inhabitants of Massachusetts had deviated from the fonns wWdl. 
are preserved in the criminal and civil procedure of England ; ia 
name of the king was not yet put at the head of the decnet of J 
Hatchinson, YoL I. p. 452. 




Vi DEMOCRACY DJ AMERICA. 

Amongst llipse documents we shall nohce, as espectaUjT 
characteristic, the code of laws promnlgtited by the iltùt 
Blate of Connecticiit in 1650,* 

Tlie legislators of Connecticut f be^n with the pena] 
laws, and, strange to say, they borrow their proviaiona from 
the text of Holy Writ. 

"Whosoever shall worship any other God than the 
Lord," says the preamble of iJie Code, "shiJl surely be 
pnt to death." This is followed by ten or twelve enact- 
ments of- the same kind, copied verliatira from the books 
of Exodus, Leviticus, and Deuteronomy. Blasphemy, sor- 
cery, adultfry,j and rape were punished with death ; an 
outrage ofiered by a son to liia parents wns to be exj»- 
ated by the same penalty. The legislation of a rude and 
half-civiUzed people waa thus applied to an enlightened and 
moral community. The consequence was, tliat the punisli- 
ment of death was never more frequently prescribed by 
statute, and never more rarely enforced. § 

The chief care of the le^lators, in this body of p^uil 
hiws, was the maintenance of orderly conduct and good 
morals in the commonity: thus they constantly invaded 

• Code of 1650, p. 38 (Hartford. 1830). 

t Sec alio in Hutchinson's Histar}r, Vol. I. pp. 43S, 4SG, tbe Htaljrii 
of the penal code adopted id 1MB by the coIodj of MuuchmetM: iUt 
code h drawn up on tho some prinriplcs at that of Connecticut. 

X Adultery wa» alio puntehed with death by the law of UMMcfatueM: 
and HutchiniOD (Vol. I. p. MI) wyi that seT«ral pcnoiu actnally iiiBml 
for tliii crime. He quotes a corioiu aoecdotc on tbU (ubject, of what twk 
place in the year 1663. A manied voinan had had criminal intareoraa 
with a young man ; her husband died, and ehe manned the lover. Sevan) 
y«arB had elapsed, when (he public b^an to suspect the previont intanoana 
of this couple : they were thrown into prison, pat upon trial, and vvy mf 
tDwly escaped capital punishment. 

( Except in England, up to the beginning of the pieaent cenbuy, vhan 
nioTe,^haa one hundred dimes were statutably punishable with death, bM 
not more than one out of a hundred convicted persons wm act«ally «a» 
cnted. — Am. Ed. 



•rrrr 



ORIGIN OF THE ANGLO-AMERICANS. 47 

the domain of conscience, and there was scarcely a sin 
•which was not subject to magisterial censure. The reader 
is aware of the rigor with which these laws punished rape 
and adultery; intercourse between unmarried persons was 
likewise severely repressed. The judge was empowered to 
inflict either a pecuniary penalty, a whipping, or mar- 
riage,* on the misdemeanants ; and if the records of the 
old courts of New Haven inay be believed, prosecutions- 
of this kind were not unfrequent. We find a sentence, 
bearing date the 1st of May, 1660, inflicting a fine and 
reprimand on a young woman who was accused of using 
improper language, and of allowing herself to be kisscd.f 
The Code of 1650 abounds in preventive measures. It 
pimishes idleness and drunkenness with severity. J Inn- 
keepers were forbidden to furnish more than a ceiiain 
quantity of liquor to each consimier ; and simple lying, 
whenever it may be injurious,^ is checked by a fine or a 
flogging. In other places, the legislator, entirely forget- 
ting the great principles of rehgious toleration which he 
had himself demanded in Europe, makes attendance on 
divine service compulsory, || and goes so far as to visit with 
severe punishment,^ and even with death. Christians who 

* Code of 1650, p. 48. It appears sometimes to have happened that the 
judges inflicted these punishments cumulatively, as is seen in a sentence 
pronounced in 1643 (New Haven Antiquities, p. 114), by which Margaret 
Bedford, convicted of loose conduct, was condemned to be whipt, and aftcr- 
wwds to marry Nicolas Jemmings, her accomplice. 

t New Haven Antiquities, p. 104. See also Hutchinson's History for 
KTend causes equally extraordinaiy. 

t Code of 1650, pp. 50, 57. § Ibid., p. 64. |I Ibid., p. 44. 

^ This was not peculiar to Connecticut. See, for instance, tlie law 
which, on the 13th of September, 1644, banished the Anabaptists from 
Massachusetts. (Historical Collection of State Papers, Vol. I. p. 538.) See 
tiso the law against the Quakers, passed on the 14th of October, 1656. 
« Whereas," says the preamble, " an accursed race of heretics called Qaakers 
has sprung up," etc The clauses of the statute inflict a heavy flue on «î\. 
captains of ship» who àboïûd import Quaken into the country. TY\o Q,\UBà{LCX% 



48 DBMOGBAOT IN MOmO^ 

chose to worship God aoooiding to a ritoil diflSariBg 
his own.* Sometimes, indeed, the seal fiir fegak/Sott itm 
duces him to descend to the most firiroloai psrlkiitMi^ 
thus a law is to be fcnmd in the same code whidb fiioliilifti 
the use of tobacco, f It mnst not be forgotten tfaafclhiWi 
fantastical and vexations lawi weiie not imposed by 
thority, but that they weiie fieelj voted bj all the 
interested in them, and that the manners of the 
nity were even more austere and puritanical than die hmt' 
In 1649, a solenm association was formed in BostoBr te 
check the worldly luxury of long hair. ^ ^s^ 

These errors are no doubt discreditable to haman ZiM 
son ; they attest the inferiority of our natme, wUdk* it;. 
incapable of laying firm hold upon what is true and- jiw%r 
and is often reduced to the alternative of two excesses.. 
In strict connection with this penal legislation, which bears, 
such striking marks of a narrow, sectarian spirit, and of 
those religious passions which had been warmed by perse- 
cution and were still fermenting among the people, a body 
of political laws is to be found, which, though writtep two 
hundred years ago, is still in advance of the liberties of 
our age. 

The general principles which are the groundwork of 
modem constitutions — principles which, in the seven- 
teenth century, were imperfectly known in Europe, and 

who may be found there shall be whipt and imprisoned with hard labor. Tho« 
members of the sect who should defend their opinions shall be first fined, 
then imprisoned, and finally driven oat of the province. Historical Col- 
lection of State Papers, Vol. I. p. 630. 

* By tihe penal law of Massachusetts [1647] any Catholic priest who 
should set foot in the colony after having been once driven out of it was . 
liable to capital pnnishment [This act had a political rather than an oodo- 
fiastical purpose, and was of a piece with the penal legislation of Englaiid 
at about the same period, and long afterwards, against the CathoUd» 
—Ax. Ed.] 

t Code of 1650, p. 96. 

I New England's Memorial, p. 316. See Appendix £. 



OBIGIM OF TBE AMaLO-AHEBICANS. 49 

not completely trininphaiit even in Great Britain — were 
dl recognized and established ly the hwa of New Eng- 
land : the intervention of the people in public aflàirs, the 
âree voting of taxes, the responsibility of the agents of 
power, personal liberty, and trial by jury, were all posi* 
tirely established without discussion. 

These fruitful principles were there applied and devet 
oped to an extent such as no nation in Europe has yet 
ventured to attempt. 

In Connecticut the electoral body consisted, from its 
origin, of the whole number of citizens ; and this is read- 
fly to be understood,* when we recollect that in tliis young 
conmiunity there was an ahnost perfect eqnaBty of fortune, 
and a still greater uniformity of opinions. f In Connecti- 
cut, at tliis period, all the executive fiinctionaries were 
elected, including the Governor of the Statc.J The citi- 
«ena above the age of sixteen were obliged to bear arms [ 
they formed a national militia, which appointed its own 
officers, and was to hold itself at all times in readiness to 
march for the defence of the country.^ 

In the laws of Connecticut, as well as in all those of 
New England, we find the germ and gradual development 
of that township Independence, which is the life and main- 
Spring of American hberty at the present day. Tlie poht- 
ical existence of the majority of the nations of Europe 
conunenced in the superior ranks of society, and was 
gradually and imperfectly communicated to the different 
members of the social body. In America, on the contrary, 

* ConatitDtion of 1638, p. IT. 

t In 1641 the General Aisemblj' o( Rhode Island ananimoiiElf doctarod 
that the goTemmcDt of the state was a democracy, and thnt tlic poirer m* 
TMted in the body of free citizens, vha atone had the riglit to make ths 
lam and to watcli their execution. Code of 1650, p. TO. 

t Filkin'i History, p. 47. 

I CoottitQtioaof 1638, p. 13. 



fl 



I 



50 DXHocB&amp;oT jsiMaaak 

it may be said that die townabip vh " y"™^ IxAn Aft 
conn^, the coonty befoiç the Stwte, die State bAn ftt 

■Union. 

In New Englsndf towiuhips wen eianpletély Mfl flaflij 
tively constituted u euiy as 1650. TTin iiii1f|nniifiiM in of 
the township was the nndens round wUdi the loed iat«t&gt; 
esta, passions, rights, and dndes collected uid clwig. -A • 
gave scope to the activity of a real politicai life, thcnxig^^ 
democratic and repnhlicim. The colonies still Tecogmnd 
the anpremacy of the mother country ; monarchy was «Ifill 
the Uw of the State ; bat the republic was alreadj' «tab&gt; 
lished in every township. 

. The towns named th«âr own ma^tratea of ereiy Uat* ' 
rated themselves, and levied their own taxes.* In lim 
New England town, the law of representation was not 
adopted ; hut tlie affairs of the commnnity were discussed, 
as at Athens, in the market-place, by a general assembly 
^^ the citizens. 
■yla studying the laws which were promulgated at this 
early era of tlie American republics, it is impossiUe not to 
be struck by the remarkable acquaintance with the science 
of government, and the advanced theory of l^islation, 
which they display. The ideas there formed of the duties 
of society towards itB members are evidently much loftier 
and more comprehensive thsm those of European legislator! 
at diat time : obligations were there imposed upon it which 
it elsewhere slighted. In the States of New England, firom 
the first, tlie condition of the poor was provided for ; f 
strict measures were taken for the maintenance of roads, 
and surveyors were appointed to attend to them ; } records 
were established in every town, in which the results of 
public deliberations, and the births, deaths, and marriages 
&lt;rf the citizens, were entered ; § clerks wore directed to 

• Code of 1650, p. 80, t Iliid-, p- 78. ( Hid, p. 4», 

f 6ea UutchiDUD's Hiitoiy, Toi. L p. *ii. 



ORIGIN OF THE ANGLO-AMEBIGANS. 51 

keep these records;* of&amp;cers were charged wîth the ad- 
ministration of vacant inheritances, and with the arbitra- 
tion of litigated landmarks; and many others were cre- 
ated, whose chief ftmctions were the maintenance of public 
order in the community.! The law enters into a thou- 
sand various details to anticipate and satisfy a crowd of 
-social wants which are even now very inadequately felt 
in France. , 

But it is by the mandates relating to Public Education 
that the original character of American civilization is at 
once placed in the clearest light. "It being," says the 
law, " one chief project of that old deluder, Satan, to keep 
men from the knowledge of the Scripture by persuading 
them from the use of tongues, to the end that learning 
may not be buried in the graves of our forefathers, in 
church and commonwealth, the Lord assisting our en- 
deavors." X Here follow clauses estabUshing schools in 
every township, and obliging the inhabitants, under pain 
of heaivy fines, to support them. Schools of a superior 
kind were founded in the same manner in the more popu- 
lous districts. The municipal authorities were bound to 
enforce the sending of children to school by their parents ; 
they were empowered to inflict fines upon all who refused 
compliance ; and in cases of continued resistance, society 
assumed the place of the parent, took possession of the 
child, and deprived the Either of those natural rights which 
he used to so bad a purpose. The reader will undoubt- 
edly have remarked the preamble of these enactments : in 
America, religion is the road to knowledge, and the obser- 
vance of the divine laws leads man to civil freedom. 

If, after having cast a mpid glance over the state of 
American society in 1650, we turn to the condition of 
Europe, and more especially to that of the Continent, at 
the same period, we cannot fail to be struck with astonish^ 

• Ck)de of 1650, p. 86. f Ibid., p. 40. X Ib\d., v ^^' 






M DKMOGBAOT IH AMESfflL. ' 

mont. On the continent of Europe, ai the hegatàoBg.^, 
the seventeenth centoiy, ahsolate momicli^ had u i mj» 
where triumphed over the mnu of the oligucliical 
feudal liberties of the Middle Ages. Never pabq» 
tlie ideas of right more completely oreriookedt tbtti m iim 
midst of the splendor and literature of Europe ; new wai 
thcro loss political activity among the people ; never wmê 
tho principles of true fireedom less widely circi]Iated;.iiMi 
at that very time, those principles, which wexe seamed €V 
unknown by the nations of Europe, were prodaiiBed Sb, 
tho doserts of the New World, and were accepted as die 
f\i(uro creed of a great people. The boldest théorie» of 
tho luiman mind were reduced to practice by a caouiiaoi^ 
no humble, that not a statesman condescendcMl to attend to 
it ; and a system of legislation without a precedent was 
pi*(Mhu*od offhand by the natural originality of men'e 
hna^iuations. In the bosom of this obscure democracy, 
wliioh had as yet brought forth neither generals, nor phi- 
liwophers, nor authors, a man might stand up in the face 
of a free people, and pronounce with general applause the 
tbUowing fine definition of hberty.* 

" Concerning hberty, I observe a great mistake in the 
iM)untry about that. There is a twofold hberty, natural 
Cl mean as our nature is now corrupt) and civil or federaL 
The first is common to man with beasts and other 
turcs. By this, man, as he stands in relation to 
simply, hath hberty to do what he lists ; it is a hberty to 
evil as well as to good. This hberty is incompatible and 
inconsistent with authority, and cannot endure the least 
restraint of the most just authority. The exercise and 

* Mather's "Magnalia Christi Americana/' Vol. 11. p. 13. Tliis speedi 
WU made hj Winthrop ; he was accused of having committed arbitrai^ Ao- 
tkms dnring his magistracy, bnt after having made the speech, of which tlia 
■ibove is a fragment, he was acquitted by acclamation, and from that tims 
Ibrwards he was always re-elected Governor of tlic State. See Marshall^ 
Vol L p. 166. 



OKLQTSt OF THE ANGLO-AMEBICANS. 58 

maîntaîning of this liberty makes men grow more evO, and 
in time to be worse than brute beasts : omnes sumus Ucentid 
deteriares. This is that great enemy of truth and peace, 
that wild beast, which all the ordinances of God are bent 
against, to restrain and subdue it. The other kind of lib- 
erty I call civil or federal ; it may also be termed moral, in 
reference to the covenant between God and man, in the 
moral law, and the politic covenants and constitutions, 
amongst men themselves. This liberty is the proper end 
and object of authority, and cannot subsist without it ; and 
it is a liberty to that only which is good, just, and honest. 
This Uberty you are to stand for, with the hazard not only 
of your goods, but of your lives, if need be. Whatsoever 
crosseth this, is not authority, but a distemper thereof. 
This liberty is maintained and exercised in a way of sub- 
jection to authority; it is of the same kind of liberty 
wherewith Christ hath made us free."* 

I have said enough to put the character of Anglo- 
American civilization in its true light. It is the result 
(and this should be constantly present to the mind) of two 
distinct elements, which in other places have been in fre- 
quent hostility, but which in America have been admirably 
incorporated and combined with one another. I allude to 
the spirit of Religion and the spirit of Liberty. 

The settlers of New England were at the same time 
ardent sectarians and daring innovators. Narrow as the 
limits of some of their religious opinions were, they were 
free from all political prejudices. 

Hence arose two tendencies, distinct but not opposite, 
which are everywhere discernible in the manners as well 
as the laws of the country. 

♦ De Tocqueville copied firom the "Magnalia" Cotton Mather's imper- 
fect and faulty report of this speech. I have substituted Winthrop's own 
report of it, as he inserted it at the time in his " Journal/' a corrected 
edition of which has been recentlj published by Mr. Jamea ^xtugb, — 
Ed. 



M DEHOOUCT m JUISIKUL 

One would think that men who had sacxiSt 
friends, their fsmily, gnd their nstiT» Lud to i 
conviction would be wholly absorbed in the puranit of ti 
treasure which thej had just purchased at no lugli a price 
And yet we find them seeking with neariy equal zeal : 
material woalth and mcral good, — fi» veil-being and (ret 
dom on earth, and ulvatioa in heaven. They moulded 1 
and altered at pleasure all politieal jprint^les, and all hi&gt;J 
man laws and iuBtitations ; they broke dorvn tlie barriei 
of the society in which tliey were bom ; tbey disregi 
the old principles which had goremed the world for a 
a career without bounds, a field without &amp; horizon, ^ 
a{&gt;ened before them: tbey precipitate Amw J t i» mte ^ 
and traverse it in every direction. Bat, having raacbad 
the limita of the political world, tbey stop &lt;^ their own 
accord, and lay aside with awe the use of their most Sapi- 
midable faculties ; they no longer doubt or innovate ; they 
abstain from raising eveu the veU of the sanctuary, and 
bow with submissive respect before truths which tbey ad- 
mit without discussion. 

Thus, in the moral world, everything is classified, Syik 
tematized, foreseen, and decided beforehand ; in the polite 
csl world, everything is agitated, disputed, and uncertain. 
In the one is a passive though a voluntary obedicaice ; in 
tlie other, an independence scornful of experience, and 
jealous of all authority. These two tendencies, appap^ 
ently so discrepant, are far from conflicting ; they advance 
together, and mutually support each other. 

Religion perceives that civil liberty affords a noble exei^ 
cise to the &amp;cidties of man, and that the political world ia 
a field prepared by the Creator for the efforts of mïnd. 
Free and powerful in its own sphere, satisfied with the 
place reserved for it, religion never more surely establishes 
its empire than when it reigns in the hearts of men onstq»» 
ported by aogbt beside its native strength. 



■ IW ^ M»^ 



OBIGIN OF THE AKGLO-AMEBICANS. 5â&gt; 

Liberty r^ards religion as its companion in all its battles 
and its triumphs, — as the cradle of its infancy, and the 
divine source of its claims. It considers reUgion as the 
safeguard of morality, and morality as the best security of 
law, and the surest pledge of the duration of freedom.* 




REASOKS OP CBETApi ANOMALIES WHICH THE LAWl 
CUSTOMS OF THE AKOLO-AMERICANS PRESENT. 

BemBins of Aristocratic Institations amidst the most complete Democracy. 
— Why 1 — Careful Distinction to be drawn between what is of Puri- 
tanical and what of English Origin. 

Tbus reader is cautioned not to draw too general or too 
absolute an inference from what has been said. The social 
condition, the religion, and the manners of the first emi- 
grants undoubtedly exercised an immense influence on the 
destiny of their new country. Nevertheless, they could 
not found a state of things originating solely in them- 
selves : no man can entirely shake oflf the influence of the 
past ; and the settlers, intentionally or not, mingled habits 
and notions derived from their education and the traditions 
of their country with those habits and notions which were 
exclusively their own. To know and to judge the Anglo- 
Americans of the present day, it is therefore necessary to dis- 
tinguish what is of Puritanical and what of English origin. 

Laws and customs are frequently to be met with in the 
United States which contrast strongly with all that sur- 
rounds them. These laws seem to be drawn up in a spirit 
contrary to the prevailing tenor of American legislation ; 
and these customs are no less opposed to the general tone 
of society. If the English colonies had been founded in an 
age of darkness, or if their origin was already lost in the 
lapse of years, the problem would be insoluble. 

I shall quote a single example to illustrate my meaning. 
The civil and criminal procedure of the Americans has 

* Seo Appendix F. 



*i IS evident that such a lerislation îs hostile t 
^nd ta\oral»h' oidy to tlie ricli. Tlio poor in: 
I ^^ i\N ;i &lt;rcr.riry to produce, even in u eivil e:; 
• 1^ oMi^vd to wait lor justice in prison, he 
iv'dueed to distress. A wealthy person, on the 
tilways escapes imprisonment in ci&gt;'il cases ; n 
it' lio lias committed a crime, he may readily elud 
ment by breaking his bail. Thus all the penalt 
law are, for him, reduced to fines.* Nothing cai 
aristocratic than this system of legislation. Yet in 
it is the poor who make the law, and they osuall 
the greatest advantages of society to themselves, 
planation of the phenomenon is to be found in I 
tlie laws of which I speak are English, and the A 
have retained them, although repugnant to the 
tenor of their le^lation and the mass of their ide 
Next to its habits, the thing which a nation is 
o change is its civil legislation. Civil laws are f 
nown only to lawyers, whose direct interest it is 
lin them as they are, whether good or bad, simplj 
ley themselves are conversant with them. ^^^ 



SOCIAL .COHDmOH OF THE ANGLO-AMEEICAMS. 



CHAPTER III. 

SOCIAL CONDITIOK OF THE AKGLO-AMEBICANS. 

SOCIAL condition is commonlj the result of circtmt- 
stances, sometimes of laws, oftener still of these two 
causes anit«d; but when once established, it may justly be 
considered as itself the source of almost all the laws, the 
usines, and the ideas which regulate the conduct of na- 
tions : whatever it does not produce, it modifies. 

If we would become acquainted with the legislation and 
the manners of a nation, therefore, we must begin by the 
study of its social condition. 



Tbe ficst Etnigranta of NewEogluid. — Their Equality. — Aristocratic Lam 
introduced in Che South. — Period of the BcTolatioa. — Change in ths 
Laws of Inherilanee. — Eflbct* produced by thi» Change. — Democracy 
carriod to its ntmoBt Limits in the new Slate» of the Weat. — Equality of 
Abntal Endowments. 

Many important observations suggest themselves upon 
the social condition of the Anglo-Americans ; but there is 
one which takes precedence of all the rest. The social 
condition of the Americans is eminently democratic ; this 
was its character at the foundation of the colonies, and it is 
Btill more strongly marked at the present day, 

I have stated in the preceding chapter that great equal- 
i^ existed among the emigrants who settled on the a\iQt«&amp; 



.. v,,vi. iii« otiiers which might 



Ihvu ralK'il aristocratic, if it had been capabi 
:m'.^&gt;;«'!\ tVi'in iatluM' to son. 

V\\\&lt; was ihc .state of thin&lt;:s to the east of th 
to tlio southwest of that river, and as far as th 
the cîiso was different. In most of the States ; 
tlie soutliwest of the Hudson some great Engl 
etors had settled, who had imported with them i 
principles and the English law of inheritance 
explained the reasons why it was impossible e^ 
tablish a powerful aristocracy in America; thes 
existed with less force to the southwest of the 
In the South, one man, aided by slaves, could ci 
great extent of country ; it was therefore comm( 
rich landed proprietors. But their influence was 
gether aristocratic, as that term is understood ir 
since they possessed no privileges ; and the culti^ 
their estates being carried on by slaves, they had 
ants depending on them, and consequently no p 
Still, the great proprietors south of tlie Hudson c( 
a superior class, having ideas and tastes of its &lt; 
fonning the centre of political n/*^' 



,or. «T^i • ' • 



T 



SOCIAL CONDITION OF THE ANGLO-AMERICANS. 59 

oeived the desire of exercising the authority which it had 
acquired; its democratic tendencies were awakened; and 
having tbrown off the yoke of the mother country, it as- 
pired to independence of every kind. The influence of 
individuals gradually ceased to be felt, and custom and law 
united to produce the same result. 

But the law of inheritance was the last step to equality. 
I am surprised that ancient and modem jurists have not 
attributed to this law a greater influence on human afiairs.* 

* I understand bj the law of inheritance all those laws whose principal 
object it is to regulate the distribadon of property afler the death of its 
owner. The law of entail is of this nmnber : it certainly prevents the 
owner from disposing of his possessions before his death ; but this is solely 
with the view of preserving them entire for the heir. The principal object, 
therefore, of the law of entail, is to regulate the descent of property afler the 
death of its owner : its other provisions are merely means to this end. 

[We have had one modem jurist, Daniel Webster, who anticipated De 
Tocqueville in pointing out the prodigious influence, upon social and politi- 
cal affiûrs, of laws regulating the tenure and inheritance of property. In his 
oration delivered at Plymouth, December 22, 1820, Mr. Webster said: "The 
character of the political institutions of New England was determined by 
the fundamental laws respecting property.'' He enumerated the abolition 
of the right of primogeniture, the curtailment of entails, long trusts, and 
other processes for fettering and tying up lands, and the facilities offered for 
the alienation of estates through subjecting them to every sp&gt;ecies of debt, 
through public registries and the simplicity of our forms of conveyance, as 
acts which ** fixed the future frame and farm of the government** " The con- 
sequence of all these causes," he said, " has been a great subdivision of the 
soil and a great equality of condition, — the true basis, most certainly, of a 
popular government." 

In alluding to the law in France which renders compulsory an equal di- 
vision of estates on the death of their owners, Mr. Webster ventured to 
predict that, " if the government do not change the law, the law, in half 
a century, will change the government; and this change will not be in favor 
of the power of the crown, as some European writers have supposed, bat 
against it." 

This remarkable prophecy, uttered in December, 1820, was fulfilled first 
by the Revolution of July, 1830, and then, in a still more marked degree, by 
that of F^mary, 1848. —Am. Ed.] 



60 NQiOOBJLOT IN AMEBKU. 

It is true that these laws bekng to dyil affion ; but Am^ 
ought, nevertheless, to be placed at the head of all pofitifitf ^ 
institutions ; for thej exereiae an incredible mftimcft iipe&gt;t 
the social state of a people, whilst political laws only ûnam^ 
what this state already is. They have, moreover, a nMi 
and imiform manner of operating npon aodely, aflSactfaofg^' 
as it were, generations yet nnbom. Throii|^ their meaUi 
man acquires a kind of ptetematmal power ov«r the ftts» 
lot of his fellow-creatures. When the Ifgishtmr has one» 
regulated the law of inheritance, he may rest firam Ida bh 
bor. The machine once put in motion will go on ftr agee, 
and advance, as if self-guided, towards a point indicated 
beforehand. When framed in a particular manner» Ûm 
law unites, draws together, and vests property and power 
in a few hands ; it causes an aristocracy, so to speak, to 
spring out of the ground. J£ formed on opposite princi- 
ples, its action is still more rapid ; it divides, dtstributes, 
and disperses both property and power. Alarmed by the 
rapidity of its progress, those who despair of arresting its, 
motion endeavor, at least, to obstruct it by difficulties and 
impediments. They vainly seek to counteract its efiect by 
contrary efforts; but it shatters and reduces to powder 
every obstacle, until we can no longer see anything but a 
moving and impalpable cloud of dust, which signals the 
coming of the Democracy. When the law of inheritfmce 
permits, still more when it decrees, the equal division of a 
fether's property amongst all his children, its efiects are of 
two kinds : it is important to distinguish them from each 
other, although they tend to the same end. 

In virtue of the law of partible inheritance, the death of 
every proprietor brings about a kind of revolution in the 
property; not only do his possessions change hands, but 
their very nature is altered, since they are parcelled into 
shares, which become smaller and smaller at each divisiixu 
This is the direct, and as it were the physical, effect of the 



SOCIAL CONDITION OF THE ANGLO-AMEBICANS. 61 

law. It follows, then, that, in countries where equality of 
inheritance is established by law, property, and especially 
landed property, must constantly tend to division into* 
smaller and smaller parts. The effects, however, of such 
legislation would only be perceptible after a lapse of time^ 
if the law were abandoned to its own working ; for, sup- 
posing the family to consist of only two children, (and, in 
a coimtry peopled as France is, the average number is not 
above three,) these children, sharing amongst them the 
fortune of both parents, would not be poorer than their 
Either or mother. 

But tlie law of equal division exercises its influence not 
merely upon the property itself, but it affects the minds of 
the heirs, and brings their passions into play. These indi- 
rect consequences tend powerfully to the destruction of 
large fortunes, and especially of large domains. 

Among nations whose law of descent is founded upon 
the right of primogeniture, landed estates often pass from 
generation to generation without undergoing division, — 
the consequence of which is, that family feeling is to a cer- 
tain degree incorporated with the estate. The family rep- 
resents the estate, the estate the family, — whose name, 
together with its origin, its glory, its power, and its vir- 
tues, is thus perpetuated in an imperishable memorial of 
the past and a sure pledge of the future. 

When the equal partition of property is established by 
law, the intimate connection is destroyed between family 
feeling and the preservation of the paternal estate; the 
property ceases to represent the family; for, as it must 
inevitably be divided after one or two generations, it has 
evidently a constant tendency to diifainish, and must in the 
end be completely dispersed. The sons of the great land- 
ed proprietor, if they are few in nimiber, or if fortune 
befriends them, may indeed entertain the hope of being 
as wealthy as their fiither, but not of possessing tde bsxcl^ 



62 DIMOORAOT or AMEBWlL 

property that he did; iheir riches matt be uuujpùwfl'il 
other elements than his. Now, as soon as you d iw s t 
land-owner of that interest in the preservation of his 
&gt;frhich he derives from assodationi from tradition, and frdiv 
fiunily pride, you may he certain that, sooner or later,' li 
will dispose of it ; for there is a strong peconkxy i 
ill (hvor of selling, as floating capital produces Ydf^et i 
t\8t than real property, and is more readfly availaUe ti 
gratify the passions of the moment. 

Great landed estates which have once been dividiÉ 
never come together again ; for the small proprietor diaMi 
from his land a better revenue, in proportion, ihan Aft 
large owner does from his ; and of course, be seDs it al-4 
higher rate.* The calculations of gain, therefore, wUdi 
decide the rich man to sell his domain, will still more 
powerfiiliy influence him against buying small estates to 
unite them into a large one. 

What is called family pride is often founded upon an 
illusion of self-love. A man wishes to perpetuate and inn 
mortalize himself, as it were, in his great-grandchildren. 
Where family pride ceases to act, indiridual selfishness 
come» into play. When the idea of family becomes vague, 
indeterminate, and uncertain, a man thinks of his present 
convenience ; he provides for the establishment of his next 
succeeding generation, and no more. Either a man gives 
up the idea of perpetuating his family, or at any rate, he 
seeks to accomplish it by other means than by a landed 
estate. 

Thus, not only does the law of partible inheritance ren- 
der it difficult for families to preserve their ancestral do» 
mains entire, but it deprives them of the inclination to 
attempt it, and compels them in some measure to co-operate 

* I do not mean to say tliat the small proprietor cultivates his land bettor, 
bat ho cultivates it witli more ardor and care : so tliat he makes up bjr hto 
labor for his wont of skill. 



SOOAL CONDITION OF THE ANGLO-AMERICANS. 68 

with the law in their own extinction. The law of eqnal 
distribution proceeds by two methods : by acting upon 
ihings, it acts upon persons; by influencing persons, it 
affscts things. By both these means, the law succeeds in 
striking at the root of landed property, and dispersing nq)- 
idly both families and fortunes.* 

Most certainly it is not for us, Frenchmen of the nine- 
teenth century, who daily witness the political and social 
changes wliich die law of partition is bringing to pass, to 
question its influence. It is perpetually conspicuous in our 
country, overthrowing the walls of our dwellings, and re- 
moving the landmarks of our fields. But although it has 
produced great effects in France, much still remains for 
it to do. Our recollections, opinions, and habits present 
powerful obstacles to its progress. 

In the United States, it has nearly completed its work 
of destruction, and there we can best study its results. 
The English laws concerning the transmission of property 
were abolished in almost all the States at the time of the 
Revolution. The law of entail was so modified as not ma- 
terially to interrupt the ifree circulation of property»! The 
first generation having passed away, estates began to be 
parceUed out; and the change became more and more 

• Land being tlie most stable kind of property, wc find, from to time, 
rich individuals wlio are disposed to make great sacrifices in order to obtain 
it, and who willingly forfeit a considerable part of their income to make sore 
of the rest. But these are accidental cases. The preference for landed prop- 
erty is no longer found habitually in any class but among tlie poor. The 
small land-owner, who has less information, less imagination, and fewer pas- 
sions than the gi-eat one, is generally occupied with the desire of increasing 
his estate : and it often liappens that by inlieritance, by marriage, or by the 
chances of trade, he is gradually furnished with the means. Thus, to balance 
the tendency which leads men to divide their estates, there exists another, 
which incites them to add to them. This tendency, which is sufficient to pre- 
Tent estates from being divided ad infiniixan, is not strong enough to create 
great territorial possessions, certainly not to keep them up in the same family. 

t Sec Appendix G. 



I 



m DËMOCRACr IN A»EUICA. 

r^iid with the progroos of time. And now, after ft \ttpae 
of a little more than sixty years, tlie aspect of society h 
totally altered ; the families of the great landed proprietors 
are almost all commingled with the general mass. In the 
State of New York, which formerly contained many of 
these, there are but two who still keep their heads abare 
the stream ; and they must shortly disappear. The sons 
of tliese opulent citizens have liecoine mcrclianU, lawyere, 
or physicians. Most of them have lapsed int« obscurity. 
The last trace of hereditary ranks and distinctions is de- 
stroyed, — the law of partition has reduced all to one levd. 

I do not mean tliat tlicrc is any lack of wealthy individ- 
uals in the United States ; I know of no country, indeed, 
where the love of money haa taken stronger hold on the 
affections of men, and where a profounder contempt is 
eq)resscd for the theory of the permanent cquahtj of 
property. But wealth circulates with inconceivahle lilH 
pidlty, and experience shows that it is rare to find two 
succeeding generations in the fidl enjoyment of it. 

This picture, which may, perhaps, be thought to be oven 
charged, still gives a very imperfect idea of what is taking 
place in the new States of the West and Southwest At 
the end of the last century, a few bold adventurers begta 
to penetrate into the valley of- the Mississippi; and tlie 
mass of the population very soon began to move in that 
direction; communides imheard of till then suddenly u^ 
peared in the desgrt. States whose names were not in 
existence a few years before, claimed their place in tlie 
American Union ; and in the Western settlements we maj 
behold democracy arrived at its utmost limits. In these 
States, founded off-hand, and as it were by chance, the 
inhabitants are but of yesterday. Scarcely known to ona 
another, the nearest neighbors are ignorant of each other's 
histoiy. In this part of the American continent, therefare* . 
the population has escaped the influence not only i^ great 



SOCIAL C02n)inON OF THE AK6L0-AMEBICANS. 65 

names and great wealth, but even of the natural aristocracy 
of knowledge and virtue. None are there able to wield 
that respectable power which men willingly grant to the 
remembrance of a life spent in doing good before their 
eyes. The new States of the West are already inhabited ; 
but society has no existence among them. 

It is not only the fortunes of men which are equal in 
America ; even their acquirements partake in some degree 
of the same uniformity. I do not believe that thete is a 
country in the world where, in proportion to the popula- 
tion, there are so few ignorant, and at the same time so 
few learned, individuals. Primary instruction is within the 
reach of everybody ; superior instruction is scarcely to be 
obtained by any.* This is not surprising ; it is, in fact, the 
necessary consequence of what we have advanced above. 
Almost all the Americans are in easy circumstances, and 
can, therefore, obtain the first elements of human knowlr 
edge. 

In America, there are but few wealthy persons ; nearly 
all Americans have to take a profession. Now, every pro- 
fession requires an apprenticeship. The Americans can 
devote to general education only the early years of life. 
At fifteen, they enter upon their calling, and thus their 
education generally ends at the age when ours begins.f 

* This was an exaggerated statement even when De Tocqaeville wrote, 
thirty years ago. Bat now, in the Atlantic States, through the influence of 
the Uniyeraities and of scientific and literary associations, there are probably, 
in proportion to the population, as many scholars, men of science, and high- 
ly educated men, as in any country of Europe. — Am. Ed. 

t Members of what are called the learned professions — law, physic, and 
divinity — do not usually begin practice in America before they are twenty- 
two or twenty-three years old. The average age of the graduates of Ameri- 
can Colleges is over twenty years, and two or three years aAer graduation 
most be devoted to professional studies. Boys become apprentices to the 
mechanic trades, it is true, at fourteen years ; but this is the usual age for the 
beginning of apprenticeship in England and on the continent of £uxo^ IkA 




DEMOCRACY IN AMERICA. 



Whatever is done afterwards is with a vievf to some special 
and lucrative object ; a sdence is taken up as a matter of 
business, and tlie only branch of it which is attended to a 
such as admits of an immediate practical application. 

In America, most of the rich men were formerly poor ; 
most of those who now enjoy leisure were absorbed in 
busmess during their youth ; tlie consequence of which ia, 
that, when they might have had a taste for study, they had 
no time for it, and when the time is at their disposal, they 
have no longer the inclination. 

There ia no class, then, in America, in wliich the taste 
for intellectual pleasures b transmitted with hereditary for^ 
tune and leisure, and by which the labors of the intellect 
are held in honor. Accordingly, there is an equal want of 
the desire and the power of apphcation to these objects. 

A midtUing standard is fixed in America for human 
knowledge. All approach as near to it as they can ; some 
as they rise, others as they descend. Of course, a mnlt&gt; 
tude of persons are to be found who enterttun the same 
number of ideas on reli^on, history, science, political econ^ 
omy, legislation, and government. The gifts of intellect . 
proceed directly from God, and man cannot prevent their 
unequal distribution. But it is at least a consequence of 
what we have just said, that although the capacities (rf 
men are differei^ as the Creator intended they should be, 
Americans find'Oie means of putting them to use are equal. 

In America, the aristocratic element has always been 
feeble from its birth j and if at the present day it is not 
actually destroyed, it is at any rate so completely disabled^ 
that we can scarcely assign to it any degree of infioence 
on the course of affîûrs. 

&gt; geoenl m!c, childno of the poorest puent* are not compolted to Im^ 
hari Ubor at &gt;o carlr on age in the United States ai in Great Britain. Da 
Tocqncvillo'i statomcnt ia coofiued, becaow be dae« not Bufflcientljr iadiiailt 
wlifeli'&lt;ptofcMioni" or "caUingi" he ia ipeaJdiig of. — An. Es. 



SOCIAL CONDITION OF THE ANGLO-AMERICANS. '67 

The democratic principle, on the contrary, has gained so 
much strength by time, by events, and by legislation, as 
to have become not only predominant, but all-powerful. 
There is no family or corporate authority, and it is rare to 
find even the influence of individual character enjoy any 
durability. 

America, then, exhibits in her social state an extraor- 
dinary phenomenon. Men are there seen on a greater 
equality in point of fortune and intellect, or, in other 
words, more equal in their strength, than in any other 
country of the world, or in any age of which history has 
preserved the remembrance. 



POUnCAL CONSEQUENCES OF THE SOCIAL CONDITION OF 

THE ANGLO-AMERICANS. 

The political consequences of such a social condition as 
this are easily deducible. 

It is impossible to believe that equality will not eventu- 
ally find its way into the political world, as it does every- 
where else. To conceive of men remaining forever unequal 
upon a single point, yet equal on all others, is impossible ; 
they must come in the end to be equal upon all. 

Now I know of only two methods of establishing equality 
in the political world ; every citizen must be put in posses- 
sion of his rights, or rights must be granted to no one. 
For nations which are arrived at the same stage of social 
existence as the Anglo-Americans, it is, therefore, very 
difficult to discover a medium between the sovereignty of 
all and the absolute power of one man : and it would be 
vain to deny that the social condition which I have been 
describing is just as Uable to one of these consequences as 
to the other. 

There is, in fact, a manly and lawful passion fot eG^i!î\t^ 



08 DEMOCRACY IN AMERICA. 

which incites men to wish all to be powerful and honored*! 
This passion tends to devat© the humble to the rank of ti 
great ; but there exists also iii the human heart a dejiraVfldfl 
taste for equality, which impels the weak to attempt 1 
lower the powerful to their own level, and reduces i 
prefer equality in slavery to mequality with freedom. No( 
that tliose iiatioiLs whose social condition is dcmocratiaj 
naturally despise liberty; on tlie contrary, they liave f 
instinctive love of it. But hberty is not the chief i 
constant object of their desires ; equality is their idol : th^ 
make rapid and sudden eiforts to obtain libert}', and, if tbej^'l 
miss their aim, resign themselves to their disappointment ]J 
but nothing can satisfy them without equality, and tlie] 
would rather perish than lose it. 

On the other hand, in a state where the citizens are all 
nearly on an equahty, it becomes difficult for them to pr&amp;- 
aerve their independence against the aggressions of power. 
No one among them being strong enough to engage in the , 
struggle alone with advantage, nothing but a general conn 
tùnatjon can protect their liberty. Now, such a anioa ia 
not always possible. 

From the same social position, then, nations may derive 
one or the other of two great political résulta ; these r^ 
suits are extremely different from each other, but they both 
proceed from the same cause. 

The Anglo-Americans are the first nation who, having 
been' exposed to this formidable alternative, have been 
happy enough to escape the dominion of absolute power. 
They have been allowed by their circumstances, tb^ ori- 
gin, their intelligence, and especially by their moniUt to 
establish and miaintain the sovereignty of the people. 



SOVEBEiaNTr OF THE PEOPLE. W 



CHAPTER IV. 

THE PBINCIFLE OP THE SOVEREIGNTY OF THE PEOPLE IN 

AMERICA. 

It prédominâtes orer the whole of Society in America. — Application made 
of this Principle by the Americans even before their Revolution. — De- 
Telopment given to it by that Revolution. — Gradual and irresigtible 
Extension of the Elective Qualification. 

WHENEVER the political laws of the United States 
are to be discussed, it is with the doctrine of the 
sovereignty of the people that we must begin. 

The principle of the sovereignty of the people, which is 
always to be found, more or less, at the bottom of almost 
all human institutions, generally remains tliere concealed 
fi-om view. It is obeyed without being recognized, or if 
for a moment it be brought to light, it is hastily cast back 
into the gloom of the sanctuary. 

" The wiU of the nation " is one of those phrases which 
have been most largely abused by the wily and the despotic 
of every age. Some have seen the expression of it in the 
purchased suffrages of a few of the satellites of power ; 
others, in the votes of a timid or an interested minority ; 
and some have even discovered it in the silence of a people, 
on the supposition that the Êict of submission established 
the right to command. 

In America, the principle of the sovereignty of the peo- 
jJe is not either barren or concealed, as it is with some 
other nations; it is recognized by the customs and pro- 
claimed by the laws ; it spreads freely, and arrives Yf\t\\.Qi\vl 



70 DXMOCSACT IN AXEBIGA. 

impediment at its most remote consecjaenoeB. If dm» lie 
a coimtry in the woild where the doctrine of the wofWr 
ereignty of the people can be fiddly appiedatod^ where it 
can be studied in its application to the affiura of sodeCjv 
and where its dangers and its advantages may be jndgedi 
that country is assuredly America. 

I have already observed that, from thdr origjin, the aov^ 
ereignty of the people was the fundamental princ^Ie of 
most of the British colonies in America. It was fiur, how^ 
ever, from then exercising as much influence on the goi^ 
emment of society as it now does. Two obstades — the 
one external, the other internal — checked its invasivie 
progress. 

It could not ostensibly disclose itself in the laws of col" 
onies which were still constrained to obey the mother 
country ; it was therefore obliged to rule secretly in the 
provincial assemblies, and especially in the townships. 

American society at that time was not yet prepared to 
adopt it with all its consequences. InteUigence in New 
England, and wealth in the country to the south of the 
Hudson, (as I have shown in the preceding chapter,) long 
exercised a sort of aristocratic influence, which tended to 
keep the exercise of social power in the hands of a few. 
Not all the public functionaries were chosen by popular 
vote, nor were all the citizens voters. The electoral fran- 
chise was everywhere somewhat restricted, and made de- 
pendent on a certain qualiflcation, which was very low in 
the North, and more considerable in the South. 

The American Revolution broke out, and the doctrine 
of the sovereignty of the people came out of the townships, 
and took possession of the State. Every class was enlisted 
in its cause ; battles were fought and victories obtained for 
it ; it became the law of laws. 

A change almost as rapid was effected in the interior of 
society, where the law of inheritance completed the abo- 
L'tion of local înâuences. 



il- T I 



SOVEREIGNTY OF THE PEOPLE. 71 

As soon as this effect of the laws and of the Revolution 
became apparent to every eye, victory was irrevocably pro- 
nounced in favor of the democratic cause. All power was, 
in &amp;ct, in its hands, and resistance was no longer possible. 
The higher orders submitted without a murmur and with- 
ont a stra^le to an evU which was thenceforth inevitable. 
The ordinary fiite of âdling powers awaited them : each of 
their members foUowed his own interest; and as it was 
impossible to wring the power from the hands of a people 
whom they did not detest sufficiently to brave, their only 
aim was to secure its good-will at any price. The most 
democratic laws were consequently voted by the very men 
whose interests they impaired : and thus, although the 
higher classes did not excite the passions of the people 
against their order, they themselves accelerated the tri- 
umph of the new state of things ; so that, by a singular 
change, the democratic impulse was found to be most irre- 
sistible in the very States where the aristocracy had the 
firmest hold. The State of Maryland, which had been 
founded by men of rank, was the first to proclaim univei&gt; 
sal sufirage, and to introduce the most democratic forms 
into the whole of its government. 

When a nation begins to modify the elective qualifica- 
tion, it may easily be foreseen that, sooner or later, that 
qualification will be entirely abolished. There is no more 
invariable rule in the history of society : the further elec- 
toral rights are extended, the greater is the need of extend- 
ing them ; for after each concession the strength of th^ 
democracy increases, and its demands increase with its. 
strength. The ambition of those who are below the ap- 
pointed rate is irritated in exact proportion to the great 
number of those who are above it. The exception at last 
becomes the rule, concession follows concession, and no 
stop can be made short of universal suffrage.* 

• See Appendix H. 



TS DEMOCRACY IN AMERICA. 

At Ûie present day the principle of the sovereignty a 
the people has acquired, in the United States, all the | 
tical development which the imagination can conceîvl 
It ia unencumbered by those fictions wliich are ttirow 
over it in otlier countries, and it appears in every p 
form, according lo the exigency of the occasion. Soni 
tiinea tlie laws are made by the people In a boiiy, us i 
Atliens ; and sometimes its representatives, chosen by UBJ 
versai sui&amp;age, transact business in its name, and' under til 
immediate su)&gt;er vision. 

In some coimtries, a power exists wliich, though it ia ja 
a degree foreign to the social body, directs it, and forces ifl 
to pursue a certain track. In others, the ruling force t 
divided, being partly within and partlv without the ranksfl 
of the pcoj,Io. But iiuibi.i^. uftliL. !,;".].! i^ I 
the United States; thçre^society governs itself for itaelfl ' 
All power centres in its bosom ; and scarcely an individiuU 
is to be met with who would venture to conceive, or, stilï 
less, to express, the idea of seeking it elsewhere. Ilie 
nation participates in the making of its laws by the choice 
of its legislators, and in the execution of them by the 
choice of the agents of the executive government ; it may 
almost be said to govern itself, so feeble and so restricted 
is the share left to the administration, so little do the att- 
thoritjes forget their popular ori^n and the power from 
which they emanate. The people reign in the Ajnerican 
political world as the Deity does in the universe. Tfafiy 
are the cause and the aim of all things ; everything comei 
frorii them, and everything is absorbed in them. 






EXAMINATION OF THE CONDITION OF THE STATES. 73 



CHAPTER V. 



NECESSFTY OF EXAMINING THE CONDITION OF THE STATES 
BEFORE THAT OF THE UNION AT LARGE. 

IT is proposed to examine, in the following chapter, what 
is the form of government established in America on 
the principle of the sovereignty of the people ; what are 
its means of action, its hindrances, its advantages, and its 
dangers. The first diflSculty which presents itself arises 
firom the complex nature of the Constitution of the United 
States, which consists of two distinct social structures, con- 
nected, and, as it were, encased one within the other ; two 
governments, completely separate and almost independent, 
the one fulfilling the ordinary duties, and responding to the 
daily and indefinite calls, of a community, the other cir- 
cumscribed within certain limits, and only exercising an 
exceptional authority over the general interests of the 
country. In short, there are twenty-four small sovereign 
nations, whose agglomeration constitutes the body of the 
Union. To examine the Union before we have studied 
the States, would be to adopt a method filled with ob- 
stacles. The form of the Federal Government of the. 
United States was the last to be adopted ; and it is in fact) 
nothing more than a summary of those republican prin-î 
ciples which were current in the whole community beforej 
it existed, and independently of its existence. Moreover, 
the Federal Government is, as I have just observ^ed, the 
exception ; the government of the States is the rule. The 
author who should attempt to exhibit the pictuie ^ ^ 



74 DICMOCKACT IN AMEBICli. 

whole, beiore lie liad explained its dotails, wutdd net 
rily Ml into obscurity and repetition, 

The great political principles which «ow govern Amet 
can society undoubtedly took their ori^ and their grow 
in the State. We must know the State, tiien, in order J 
gain a clew to the rest. The States which now compofl 
the American Union all present tlie same features, as far M 
i-Bgards the extemal aspect of their institutions. TheA 
pohtical or administrative life is centred in three foe 
of action, which may he compared to the diffijifnt ncrvoi 
centres which give motion to the human hotly. The tow 
ship is the first in order, then the comity, and lastly t 
State. 



TITE AMERICAN 



OP TOWNflHIPS." 



Why the Anthor begin» Ibe Emminadon of the PoUtiul Imtitiil 
tbeTovmïhip. — Its Existence in all Nations. — Difficalt; of M 
and preserving Municipal Independence. — Its Importance. — Wbj A^ 
Aatlior htu «clcclcd the TownsUp System of New EngUnd as tha nwEn 
Topic of his Discussion. 

It is not undesignedly that I be^n this subject with iba 
Township. The village or township is the only associatioo: 
which is so perfectly natural, that, wherever a number cf' 
men are collected, it seems to constitute itself. ' 

The town or tithing, then, exists in all nations, whaterer 
their laws and customs may be: it is man who makes m(ni&gt; 
archies and establishes repubhcs, but the township seems to 

• It U by tliis periplirsaÏB that I attempt to render the French expreMioM 
Commune and SyiUmt Ccmmimal. I am not aware that anj English word 
precisely coiresponds to the general term of the original. In France, erarf 
awodation of homaii dwellings forms » commime, and every amraune is gOT* 
emed by a Main and a Cmudl miaUdpal. In other words, the nanàpiim, 
or mnoidpal privilege, which belong), in England, to chartered coiporMions 
alone,' if alike extended to every cuminiDw into nbich tbe caniom and depofr 
ment) were divided at the Berolniioii. Thence the diâêrent application «T 



"ite- 



TOWNSHIPS Am&gt; MUNICIPAL BODIES. 75 

come directly from the band of God. But although the 
existence of the township is coeval with that of man, its 
freedom is an infrequent and fragile thing. A nation can 
always establish great political assemblies, because it habit 
ually contains a certain number of individuals fitted by 
their talents, if not by their habits, for the direction of 
affidrs. The township, on the contrary, is composed of 
coarser materials, which are less easily fashioned by the 
legislator. The difficulty of establishing its independence 
rather augments than diminishes with the increasing intelli- 
gence of the people. A highly civilized community can 
hardly tolerate a local independence, is disgusted at its 
numerous blunders, and is apt to despair of success befiMre 
the experiment is completed. Again, the immunities of 
townships, which have been obtained with so much diffi- 
culty, are least of all protected against the encroachments 
of the supreme power. They are unable to struggle, \ 
single-handed, against a strong and enterprising govern- 
ment, and they cannot defend themselves with success 
unless they are identified with the customs of the nation 
and supported by public opinion. Thus, until the inde- 
pendence of townships is amalgamated with the manners J 
of a people, it is easily destroyed ; and it is only after a 
long existence in the laws that it can be thus amalgamated. 
Municipal freedom is not the fruit of human efibrts ; it is 
rarely created by others ; but is, as it were, secretly self- 
produced in the midst of a semi-barbarous state of society. 
The constant action of the laws and the national habits, 

the expresfflon, which is general in one coantry and restricted in the other. 
In America, the counties of the Northern States are divided into townships, 
those of the Southern into parishes ; besides which, municipal bodies, bear- 
ing the name of corporations, exist as cities. I shall apply these several 
expressions to render the term commune. The word «parish," now com- 
monlj used in England, belongs exclusivelj to the ecclesiastical division ; 
it denotes the limits over which a paraon*s {penona ecclesiœ, or perhaps parom 
Mouu) rights extend. — Trandator^s Note. 



76 DEMOCBAOT IN AHERiai. 

peculiar circumstances, and, above all, time, maj oonaoB- 
date it ; but there is certainly no nation on the oontinenl 
of Europe which has experienced its advantages. Tet HUH 
nicipal institutions constitate the strength of free naliona.' 
Town-meetings are to liberty what primary schools are t» 
science ; they bring it within the people's reach, they teadr 
men how to use and how to enjoy it. A nation may eatab- 
lish a free government, but without municipal institutional 
it cannot have the spirit of liberty. Transient pasuooii 
the interests of an hour, or the chance of drcumstanoea, 
may create the external forms of independence ; bat the 
despotic tendency which has been driven into the interior 
of the social system, will, sooner or later, reappear on the 
surface. 

To make the reader understand the general principles 
on wliicli the political organization of the counties and 
townships in the United States rests, I have thought it 
expedient to choose one of the States of New England as 
an exam])lc, to examine in detail the mechanism of its 
constitution, and then to cast a general glance over the 
rest of the coimtry. 

The township and the county are not organized in the 
same manner in every part of the Union ; it is easy to 
perceive, however, that nearly the same principles have 
guided the formation of both of them throughout the 
Union. I am inclined to believe that these principles 
have been carried further, and have produced greater 
results, in New England than elsewhere. Consequently, 
they stand out there in higher relief, and offer greater 
fecilities to the observations of a stranger. 

The townsliip institutions of New England form a com- 
plete and regular whole ; they are old ; they have the 
support of the laws, and the stiU stronger support of the 
manners of the community, over which tliey exercise a 
prodigious influence. For all these reasons, they deserve 
imr anecJal attention. 



Ljficnï 



lOWNSHIPS AND MUNICIPAL BODIES. 71 



LIMITS OF THE TOWNSHIP. 

The township of New England holds a middle place be- 
tween the commune and the canton of France. Its average 
population is firom two to three thousand ; * so that it is 
not so large, on the one hand, that the interests of its in- 
habitants would be likely to conflict, and not so small, on 
the other, but that men capable of conducting its afiairs 
may always be found among its citizens. 



POWERS OP THE TOWNSHIP IN NEW ENGLAND. 

The Ftople the Source of aU Power in the Township as elsewhere. — Man- 
ages its own Afi^rs. — No Municipal Conncil. — The greater Part of the 
Authoritj vested in the Selectmen. — How the Selectmen act. — Town- 
Meeting. — Enumeration of the OflBcers of the Township. — Obligatory 
and remunerated Functions. 

In the township, as well as everywhere else, the people 
are the source of power ; but nowhere do they exercise their 
power more immediately. In America, the people form a 
master who must be obeyed to the utmost limits of possibility. 

In New England, the majority act by representatives in 
conducting the general business of the State. It is neces- 
sary that it should be so. But in the townships, where the 
legislative and administrative action of the government is 
nearer to the governed, the system of representation is not 
adopted. There is no municipal council ; but the body of 
voters, after having chosen its magistrates, directs them in 
everything that exceeds the simple and ordinary execution 
of the laws of the Statcf 

♦ In 1830 there were 305 townships in the State of Massachusetts, and 
610,014 inhahitants ; which gives an average of ahout 2,000 inhabitants to 
each township. [Some have over 10,000 inhabitants each, and some have 
1^ than 500. — Am. Ed.] 

t The same roles are not applicable to the cities, which geneiiJ^y \)K&lt;r« % 



78 DEMOCRAOT IN AMESIGA. 

This state of things is so contrazy to our idoM/^IÉMi 
so different from our customs, that I must fbrnidi mMd 
examples to make it intelligible. 

The public duties in the township aie extremely noBM^ 
ous, and minutely divided, as we shall see fiuiher on ; btft 
most of the administratâve power is vested in a few p(É^' 
sons, chosen annually, called " the Selectmen.*' • 

Tlie general laws of the State impose certain datiea àk 
the selectmen, which they may fulfil without the anthoritf 
of their townsmen, but which they can neglect only on 
their own responsibility. The State law requires them, fer 
instance, to draw up the list of voters in their townships; 
and if they omit this duty, they are goflty of a miads^ 
meanor. In all the aflairs, however, which are voted in 
town-meeting, the selectmen carry into effect the popular 
mandate, as in France the Maire executes the decree of 
the municipal council. They usually act upon their own 
responsibility, and merely put in practice principles which 
have been previously recognized by the majority. But if 
they wish to make ' any change in the existing state of 
things, or to undertake any new enterprise, they must re-- 
fer to the source of their power. If, for instance, a school 
is to be established, the selectmen call a meeting of the 
voters on a certain day, at an appointed place. They 
explain the urgency of the case ; they make known the 
means of satisfying it, the probable expense, and the site 
which seems to be most favorable. The meeting is con- 
mayor, and a corporation diAndcd into two bodies ; this, however, is an ex- 
ception wliich rc(|uircs the sanction of a law. — See the Act of the 22d 
February, 1822, rc«;iilating the powers of tlic city of Boston. It frcqucntlj 
iiappciLS that small towns, as well as cities, arc subject to a peculiar adminli- 
tration. In 1832, 104 townships in the State of New York were governed 
in this manner. — Williams*» Register. 

* Tiiree selectmen arc appointed in the small townships, and nine in the 
laiige ones. — See « The Town Officer/' p. 186. Sec abo the Kcvi«od Sti^ 
otes of Maiisachu^tts. 



VîS:rrfT 



TOWNSHIPS AND MUNICIPAL BODIES. 79 

salted on these several points ; it adopts the principle, 
^marks out the site, votes the tax, and confides the execu- 
tion of its resolution to the selectmen. 

The selectmen alone have the right of calling a town- 
meeting; but they may be required to do so. If ten 
citizens wish to submit a new project to the assent of the 
town, they may demand a town-meeting; the selectmen 
are obliged to comply, and have only the right of presiding 
at the meeting. These political forms, these social cui^ 
toms, doubtless seem strange to us in France. I do not 
here undertake to judge them, or to make known the secret 
causes by which they are produced and maintained. I 
only describe them. 

The selectmen are elected every year, in the month 
of March or April. The town-meeting chooses at the 
same time a multitude of other town officers, who are 
intrusted with important administrative functions. The 
assessors rate the township ; the collectors receive the tax. 
A constable is appointed to Jceep the peace, to watch the 
streets, and to execute the laws ; the town clerk records 
the town votes, orders, and grants. The treasurer keeps 
the funds. The overseers of the poor perform the difficult 
task of carrying out the poor-laws. Committee-men aio 
appointed to attend to the schools and public instruction ; 
and the surveyors of highways, who take care of the 
greater and lesser roads of the township, complete the list 
of the principal fimctionaries. But there are other petty 
officers still ; such as the parish-committee, who audit the 
expenses of public worship; fire-wards, who direct the 
efforts of the citizens in case of fire ; titliing-men, hog- 
reeves, fence-viewers, timber-measurers, and sealers of 
weights and measures.* 

* All these magistrates actnallj exist; their different functions ore all 
detailed in a Book called " The Town Officer," by Isaac Goodwin, (VTop- 
oeiter, 1827,) and in the Revised Statutes. 



80 BEMOCKACY IN AMERICA. 

There are, in all, nineteen principal offices in a tOTmalu{k^ 
Every inbabitant is constrained, on the pain of bciiig Bi 
to undertake tlieso different fimctions ; which, however, 
almost all paid, in order that the poorer citizens nuiy giv« 
time to them wirhout loss.* In general, each officiai uf 
has its price, and the officers are remunerated in proportii 
to what they have done. 



LIFB in THE TOWNSHIP. 



Every ona tlio bcsl Jndge or hii own Inleraat. — Corollnry of tbs Prind- 
ple of [he Sovemgntj of tho Feoplo. — AppQcution of tliiao Docttfae* 
in the TownahipB of Ainvrica. — The ToTnuhip of Nev ICngland û Sot- 
crcign in all that concerna iuolf alone, and Subject lo dut Stale 
other Mattun. — Duties of the Toimahip to the State. — In FnacB, 
I ita Agents to tho Commune. — In Ametica, it ii 






M 



I HAVE already obaerred, that the prindple of die Bor&lt; 
ereigntf of the people governs the whole political system 
of tlie Anglo-Americans. Every page of this book wîB- 
afford new applications of the same doctrine. In the n»t ' 
tions by which the sovereignty of the people is recognized, 
every individual has an equal share of power, and parties- 
pates equally in the government of the state. .Why, tl&gt;m, 
does he obey the government, and what are the natnoA 
limits of this obedience? Every individual is always be^ / 
posed to be as well informed, as virtuous, and as strong oa 
any of his fellow-citizem. He obeys the government, not 
because he is inferior to those who conduct it, or becrasa 
he is less capable than any other of governing bime^j 
but because he acknowledges the utility of an associatâoK 
with his fellow-men, and he knows that no such associataoïv 
can exist without a regulating force. He is a Bubject in aH 

* This ii an error : mo«t of them iie perfbnned grataitooêly ; mod wtM 
f»y if given, it ii lO imall ai to be alinon nominal. — Am. Ek. 



rJi-"i^£c«f-T 



TOWNSHIPS AND HTTNICIPAL BODIES. 81 

tiwt conoems the duties of citizens to each other ; he is free, 
and responsible to God alone, for all that concerns himself. 
Hence arises the maxim, that every one is the best and sole 
judge of his own private interest, and that society has no 
right to control a man's actions, unless they are prejudicial 
to the common weal, or unless the common weal demands 
his help. This doctrine is universally admitted in the 
United States. I shall hereafter examine the general in- 
fluence which it exercises on the ordinary actions of life : 
I am now speaking of the municipal bodies. 

The township, taken as a whole, and in relation to the 
central government, is only an individual, hke any other 
to whom the theory I have just described is appUcable. 
Municipal independence in the United States is, therefore, 
a natural consequence of this very principle of the sov- 
ereignty of the people. All the American repubUcs rec- 
ognize it more or less; but circumstances have peculiarly 
fevored its growth in New England. 

In this part of the Union, political life had its origin in 
the townships; and it may almost be said that each of 
them originally formed an independent nation. When the 
kings of England afterwards asserted their supremacy, they 
were content to assume the central power of the state. 
They left the townships where they were before ; and 
although they are now subject to the state, they were 
not at first, or were hardly so. They did not receive 
their powers from the central authority, but, on the con- 
trary, they gave up a portion of their independence to the 
state. This is an important distinction, and one which 
the reader must constantly recollect. The townships are 
generally subordinate to the state only in those interests 
which I shall term social^ as they are common to all the 
others. They are independent in all that concerns them- 
selves alone ; and amongst the inhabitants of New England, 
I believe that not a man is to be found who would ackxvo&gt;N\- 

4* Ï 



8fl DEMOCBACr tS AMERICA. 

edge tbat the state has any right to interfere in llieir toi 
ftfiairs. The towns of New England buy and spU, pro 
cute or are indicted, augment or diminish their rates, i 
oo administrative authority ever thinks of offering UDjJ 
opposition. 

There are certain social duties, however, which they a 
boimd to fulfi!. If the State ia in need of money, a tow 
cannot witlihold the supplies ; if the Slate projects a r 
the township cannot refuse to let it cross !ta teiTÎtory ; if ^ 
police regulation is made by the State, it must be enfurc 
by the town ; if a uniform system of public instruction îlu 
enacted, every town is bound to estabhsh tlie schooU v ' ' ' 
die law ordains. When I come to speak of the administzi 
tion of tlie laws in the United States, I shall point out boir*^ 
and by what means, the townships are compelled to obey in 
these different cases : I here merely show the existence of 
the obli^^ation. Strict as this obligation is, the government 
of the State imposes it in principle only, and in its pep- 
tbrmaiico the township resumes all its independent rights. 
Thus, taxes are voted by the State, but they are levied and 
collected by the townsliip ; the eslabhslunent of a school is 
obligatory, but the township builds, pays, and superintends 
it. In France, the state collector receives the local im- 
posts ; in America, tiie town collector receives the taxes of 
the State. Thus the French government lends its agents 
to the commvne; in America, the township lends its agents 
to the government. This &amp;ct alone shows how widely the 
two nations differ. 



TOWKSHIPS AND MUNICIPAL BODIES. 88 



SPIRIT OF THE TOWNSHIPS OF NEW ENGLAND. 

fiow the Township of New England wins the Affections of its Inhabitants. 
— Difficoltj of creating local Public Spirit in Europe. — The Rights 
and Duties of the American Township favorable to it. — Sources of local 
Attachment in the United States. — How Town Spirit shows itself in 
New England. — Its happy Effects. 

In America, not only do municipal bodies exist, but they 
are kept alive and supported, by town spirit. The town- 
ship of New England possesses two advantages, which 
Strongly excite the interest of mankind, — namely, inde- 
pendence and authority. Its sphere is limited, indeed ; but 
within that sphere, its action is unrestrained. This inde- 
pendence alone gives it a re^ importance, which its extent 
and population would not insure. 

It is to be remembered, too, that the aflPections of men 
generally turn towards power. Patriotism is not durable 
in a conquered nation. The New-Englander is attached 
to his township, not so much because he was bom in it, 
but because it is a free and strong community, of which he 
is a member, and which deserves the care spent in man- 
aging it. In Europe, the absence of local public spirit is 
a frequent subject of regret to those who are in power ; 
every one agrees that there is no surer guaranty of order 
and tranquillity, and yet nothing is more difficult to create. 
If the mmiicipal bodies were made powerful and indepen- 
dent, it is feared that they would become too strong, and 
expose the state to anarchy. Yet, without power and in- 
dependence, a town may contain good subjects, but it can 
have no active citizens. Another important fact is, that 
the township of New England is so constituted as to excite 
the warmest of human affections, without arousing the 
ambitious passions of the heart of man. The officers of 
the coimty are not elected,* and their authority is very 

* This is a mistake ; thej are chosen bj popular vote. — Au. 'FaIk 



81 DE^OCRAcr IN AMERICA. 

liinited. Even the State is only a second-rate commtn 
whose tranquil and obscure admiiibtration offers no ladnct 
ment sufficient to draw men away from tlie home of tlici 
tDteresta into tlie turmoil of public affairs. The Feden 
Government confers power and honor on the men who c 
duct it ; but tliese individuals can never be veiy uumerooj 
The high station of the Presidency can only be reached 4 
an advanced period of liiè ; and the other Federal lunctioi 
aries of &amp; high class are generally men who have 1 
favored by good luck, or have been distinguished in soiD 
other career. Such cannot he the permanent i 
ambitious. But the townsliip, at the centre of the ord 
nary relations of life, servies aa a field for the deairo o 
esteem, the want of eHciting interest, and the taste for : 
thority and popuJnritv ; and the passions whicli coninionly 
embroil society change their chanicter, when they find a 
vent so near the domestic hearth and the femily circle. 

In the American townships, power has been disseminated 
with admirable skill, for the purpose of interesting die 
greatest possible number of persons in the common weal. 
Independently of the voters, who are from time to time 
called into action, the power is divided among innumerable 
tiinctionaries and officers, who all, in their several spherasi 
represent the powerful community in whose name they act. 
The local administration thus aifords. an unfailing source 
of profit and interest to a vast number of individuals. 

The American system, which divides the local authority 
among so many citizens, does not scruple to multiply the 
functions of the town officers. For in the United Stated, 
it is believed, and with truth, that patriotism is a kind of 
devotion which is strengthened by ritual observance. In 
this manner, the activity of the township is con^ually pefr 
ceptible ; it is daily manifested in the fulfilment of a duty, 
or the exercise of a right ; and a constant though gentle 
motifHi is thus kept up in society, which animates without 



r-iJfr: r^. ■:&gt;- "—. - ~-r-_17 "_ 



TOWNSHIPS AND MUNiaPAL BODIES. 85 

disturbing it. The American attaches himself to his little 
commonily for the same reason that the mountaineer clings 
to his hills, because the characteristic features of his coun- 
try are there more distinctly marked ; it has a more strik- 
ing physiognomy. 

The existence of the townships of New England is, in 
general, a happy one. Their government is suited to their 
tastes, and chosen by themselves. In the midst of the 
profound peace and general comfort which reign in Amei&gt; 
ica, the commotions of municipal life are unfrequent. The 
conduct of local business is easy. The political education 
of the people has long been complete ; say rather that it 
was complete, when the people first set foot upon the soU. 
In New England, no tradition exists of a distinction of 
ranks ; no portion of the community is tempted to oppress 
the remainder ; and the wrongs which may injure isolated 
individuals are forgotten in the general contentment which 
prevails. K the government has faults, (and it would no 
doubt be easy to point out some,) they do not attract 
notice, for the government really emanates from those it 
governs, and whether it acts ill or well, this fact casts the 
protecting spell of a parental pride over its demerits. Be- 
sides, they have nothing wherewith to compare it. Eng- 
land formerly governed the mass of the colonies ; but the 
people was always sovereign in the townsliip, where its 
rule is not only an ancient, but a primitive state. 

The native of New England is attached to his townsliip 
because it is independent and free : his co-operation in its 
affairs insures his attachment to its interest; the well- 
being it affords him secures his affection ; and its welfare is 
the aim of his ambition and of his future exertions. He 
takes a part in every occurrence in the place ; he practises 
the art of government in the small sphere within his reach ; 
he accustoms himself to those forms without which Uberty 
can only advance by revolutions ; he imbibes their spirit \ 



86 DEMOCRACY IN AirEEICA. 

be acquires a taste for order, comprehends tlie bslimce i 
powers, and collects clear practical notions on the [ 
of his duties and the extent of his rights. 

THE COUNTIES OF NEW ENGLAND. 

The division of the connties in America has consideraU 
analogy with that of the arrondiiiemenig of Franco, 
limits of hoth are arbitrarily laid down, and Uie vi 
districts which they contain have no necessary connectioi 
no common tradition or natura] sjinpathy, no community 
of existence; their plject is simply to facilitate the i 
ministration. 

The extent of the township was too small to contain «" 
system of judicial institutions ; the county, therefore, is the 
first centre of judicial action. Each county has a court of 
justice, a sheriff to execute its decrees, and a prison îat 
criminals. There are certain wants which are felt alike b^ 
all the townships of a county ; it is therefore natnral thaï 
they should be satisfied by a central authority. In Mas- 
sachusetts, this authority is vested in the hands of several 
magistrates, who are appointed by the Governor of the 
State, with the advice of his council.* -The County Com- 
missioners have only a limited and exceptional authority, 
which is applicable to certain predetermined cases. The 
State and the townships possess all the power requisite fi» 
ordinary public business. The budget of the county is 
only drawn up by its Commissioners, and is voted by the 
legislature ; there is no assembly which directly or indi- 
rectly represents the county. It has, therefore, propcriy 
speaking, no political existence. 

A twofold tendency may be discerned in most of tha 

* Tbo council of the Goremor ù so clcctiro bod^. [Tho Comitj Cdb- ' 
DOW elected b; popalar toM. See Revised StotntM.— 

1 



TOWNSklPS AND MUNICIPAL BODIES. 87 

American constitations, whîch impels the legislator ^to con- 
centrate.the législative, and to divide the executive power. 
The township of New England has in itself an indestructi- 
ble principle of life ; but this distinct existence could only 
be fictitiously introduced into the county, where the want 
of it has not been felt. All the townships united have but 
one representation, which is the State, the centre of all 
national authority : beyond the action of the township and 
that of the State, it may be said that there is nothing but 
individual action. 



THE ADMINISTRATION OP GOVERNMENT IN NEW ENGLAND 

Administration not perceived in America. — ^^Why? — The Europeans be- 
lieve that Liberty is promoted by depriving the Social Authority of some 
of its Rights ; the Americans, by dividing its Exercise. — Almost all 
the Administration confined to the Township, and divided amongst the 
Town-Officers. — No Trace of an Administrative Hierarchy perceived, 
either in the Township or above it. — The Reason of this. — How it 
happens that the Administration of the State is uniform. — Who is em- 
powered to enforce the Obedience of the Township and the County to 
the Law. — The Introduction of Judicial Power into the Administration. 

— Consequence of the Extension of the Elective Principle to all Func- 
tionaries. — The Justice of the Peace in New England. — By whom ap- 
pointed. — County Officer : insures the Administration of the Townships. 

— Court of Sessions. — Its Mode of Action. — Who brings Matters 
before this Court for Action. — Right of Inspection and Indictment 
parcelled out like the other Administrative Functions. — Informers en- 
couraged by the Division of Fines. 

Nothing is more striking to a European traveller in 
the United States, than the absence of what we term the 
Government, or the Administration. Written laws exist 
in America, and one sees the daily execution of them ; but 
although everything moves regularly, the mover can no- 
where be discovered. The hand which directs the social 
machine is invisible. Nevertheless, as all persons must 



88 DEMOCRACY IN AMERICA. 

have recourse to certain grammatical forms, which «re the 
foundation of Iiuman language, in order to express their 
thoughts ; so all contmiinities are obliged to secure their 
esistence hj submitting to a certain amount of authority, 
wit]iout which they fiJl into anarchy. This authority may 
be distributed in several ways, but it must always exist 
somewhere. 

There are two methods of diminishing the force of au- 
thority in a nation. The first is to weaken the supreme 
power in its very principle, by forbidding or preveutiiig 
socii'ty from acting in it-s own defence under certain ctt^- 
cumstances. To weaken authority in tliis manner is ÛM 
European way of establishing freedom. 

The second manner of diminisliing the influence of ao- 
thority docs not consist in Btrijjpiiiy ^ix'iety ot* sninc &lt;&gt;f its 
lights, nor in paralyzing its efforts, but in distributing the 
exercise of its powers among various bands, and in mald^ 
plying ftmctionariea, to each of whom is given the degree 
of power necessary for bi"i to perform his du^. There 
may be nations whom this distribution of social powers 
might lead to anarchy ; but in itself, it is not anarcbicaL 
The authori^ thus divided is, indeed, rendered less irre- 
sistible and less perilous, but it is not destroyed. 

The Revolution of the United States was the result of r 
mature and reflecting preference of freedom, and not rf 
a vague or ill-defined craving for independence. It con- 
tracted no alliance with the turbulent passions of anarchy ; 
but its course was marked, on the contrary, by a love erf" 
ùrder and law. 

It was never assumed in the United States, that the dti* 
tea of a free country has a right to do whatever he pleases; 
on the contrary, more social obligations were there imposed 
upon him than anywhere else. No idea was ever enter- 
tained of attacking the principle or contesting the righta 
of society ; but the exercise of its authority was dmdfldi 



T0WNSHIP8 ANB MUNICIPAL BODIES. 89 

in order that the office might be powerful and the officer 
insignificant, and that the community should be at once 
regulated and free. In no country in the world does the 
law hold so absolute a language as in America ; and in no 
country is the right of applying it vested in so many 
hands. The administrative power in the United States 
presents nothing either centralized or hierarchical in its con- 
atitution ; this accounts for its passing unperceived. The 
power exists, but its representative is nowhere to be seen. 

We have already mentioned, that the independent town- 
ships of New England were not under guardianship, but 
took care of their own private interests ; and the mimicipal 
magistrates are the persons who either execute the laws of 
the State, or see that they are executed.* Besides the gen- 
eral laws, the State sometimes passes general police regu- 
lations ; but more commonly, the townships and town 
officers, conjointly with the justices of the peace, regulate 
the minor details of social life, according to the necessities 
of the different localities, and promulgate such orders as 
concern the health of the community, and the peace as 
well as morality of the citizens.f Lastly, these town 
magistrates provide, of their own accord and without any 
impulse from without, for those unforeseen emergencies 
which frequently occur in society. J 

• See " The Town-Officer," especially at the words Selectmen, Asses- 
BOHS, Collectors, Schools, Subvetobs op Highways. I take one 
example in a thousand : the State prohibits travelling on Sunday without 
good reason; the tything-men, who are town-officers, are required to keep 
watch an4 to execute the law. 

The selectmen draw np the lists of voters for the election of the Governor, 
and transmit the result of the ballot to the Secretary of the State. 

t Thus, for instance, the selectmen authorize the construction of drains, 
and point out the proper sites for slaughter-houses and other trades which 
«re a nuisance to the neighborhood. 

I For example, the selectmen, conjoinly with the justices of the peace, 
tike measores for the security of the public in case of contagious diseasoa. 



90 DEMOGRAOT IN AMEBIOA. 

It results from wliat we have said, that, m the SMu 
of Massachusetts, the administradve mûïontf is afanoii 
entirely restricted to the township,* and that it is thava 
distributed among a great number of individnah. In lU 
French commxin$y there is properlj bat one oflicial fano^ 
tionary, — namelj, the Maire; and in New Eïn^kmd, we 
have seen that there axe nineteen* These nineteen fnnch 
tionaries do not, in general, depend one upon anbdier.' 
The law carcfullj prescribes a circle of action to each oC 
these magistrates ; within that circle, they are allfMrweifiil 
to perform their functions independently of any other ait- 
thority. Above the township,' scarcely any trace of a 
hierarchy of official dignities is to be found* It soanetmieB 
happens, that the county officers alter a decision of the 
townships, or town magistrates ; f but, in general, the au- 
thorities of the county have no right to interfere with the 
authorities of the township,^ except in such matters as 
concern the county. 

The magistrates of the township, as well as those of the 

* I saj almostf for there ore many incidents in town-life which are rega- 
lated bj the justices of peace in their individiial capacity, or by an assembly 
of them in the chief town of the county ; thus, licenses are granted by the 
justices. 

t Thus, licenses are granted only to such persons as can produce a ceitif- 
icato of good conduct from the selectmen. If the selectmen refuse to give 
the certificate, the party may appeal to the justices assembled in the Conit 
of Sessions ; and they may grant the license. Tlie townships have the right 
to make by-laws, and to enforce them by fines, which are fixed by law ; bat 
these by-laws must be approved by the Court of Sessions. [In several re- 
spects, these laws and customs liave been altered by general legislation since 
the time when Dc Tocqueville wrote. But I do not think it necessary to 
specify all these alterations, as generally it is not the principle, but only the 
details, of the law that have been cliangcd. — Am. Ed.] 

X In Massachusetts the county magistrates arc frequently called upon to 
investigate the acts of the town magistrates ; but it will be sho^in farther on 
that this invc8ti{ration is a eonscquenec, not of their administrative, bat of 
their judicial jK&gt;wcr. 



iJ5S,-Jk* jSWHf!^^ ""lîi" 



|h^ &gt;CV«^ ^ - 



TOWNSHIPS AND MXJNiaPAL BODIES. 91 

■ 

cotmty, are bound, în a small number of predetermined 
cases, to communicate their acts to the central govern- 
ment.* But the central government is not represented 
by an agent whose business it is to publish police reg- 
ulations and ordinances for the execution of the laws, or 
to keep up a regular commimication with the oflScers of 
the township and the coimty, or to inspect their conduct» 
direct their actions, or reprimand their &amp;ults. There is 
no point which serves as a centre to the radii of the ad- 
ministration. 

How, then, can the government be conducted on a uni- 
form plan ? and how is the compliance of the coimties and 
their magistrates, or the townships and their officers, 
enforced? In the New England States, the legislative 
audiority embraces more subjects than it does in France ; 
the legislator penetrates to the very core of the administra- 
tion ; the law descends to minute details ; the same enact- 
ment prescribes the principle and the method of its applica- 
tion, and thus imposes a multitude of strict and rigorously 
defined obligations on the secondary bodies and functiona- 
ries of the State. The consequence of tliis is, that, if all 
the secondary functionaries of the administration conform 
to the law, society in all its branches proceeds with the 
greatest uniformity. The difficulty remains, how to compel 
the secondary bodies and functionaries of the administra- 
tion to conform to the law. It may be affirmed, in general, 
that society has only two methods of enforcing the execu- 
tion of the laws : a discretionary power may be intrusted 
to one of them of directing all the others, and of removing 
them in case of disobedience ; or the courts of justice may 
be required to inflict judicial penalties on the offender. 
But these two methods are not always available. 

The right of directing a civil officer presupposes that of 

* Thtu, the town committees of schools are obliged to make an annnal 
#Bport to the Secretary of the State on tiie oondhkm of thAifi3KN|3i» 



i 

«■ « i i . ■ . • 



. ;•• i^-ar, tX'-»-|'î îr^îTi l.î- «■•!'.&gt;: ::u 



Siiii.v ;•■:■-■ :k ai.'i : ■■■a;:-- î:.».' j-'W^.-!* i»i' i-: 
caii ik'Vlt Vk.' i'.'iiieil t«:i tiiat i&gt;f inllictini: a 
bestowing: a ivwanJ. 

The communities, therefore, in which 
fiinctionaries of the government are elected 
oUiged to make great use of judicial penah: 
of administration. This is not evident at f 
those in power are apt to look upon the instit 
tife functionaries as one concession, and the 
the elected magistrate to tlie judges of the lar 
They are equally averse to both these innova 
they are more pressingly solicited to grant th&lt; 
the latter, they accede to the election of the m 
leave him independent of the judiciid power 
less, the second of these measures is the on 
can possibly counterlialance the first ; and it 
that an elective authority which is not subje 
power will, sooner or lof"- —'^^ 



TOWNSHIPS AND MUNICaOPAL BODIES. 98 

It has always been remarked that judicial habits do not 
render men apt to the exercise of administrative authority. 
The Americans have borrowed from their fathers, the Eng* 
fish, the idea of an institution which is unknown upon the 
continent of Europe : I allude to that of Justices of the 
Peace. 

The Justice of the Peace is a sort of middle term be- 
tween the magistrate and the man of the world, between 
the civil officer and the judge. A justice of the peace is a 
well-informed citizen, though he is not necessarily learned 
in the law. His office simply obliges him to execute tliej 
police regulations of society, a task in which good sense! 
and integrity are of more avail than legal science. The 
justice introduces into the administration, when he takes 
part in it, a certain taste for established forms and pub- 
licitv, which renders him a most unserviceable instrument 
for despotism ; and, on the other hand, he is not a slave of 
those legal superstitions which render judges unfit members 
of a government. The Americans have adopted the Eng- 
lish system of justices of the peace, depriving it of the 
aristocratic character which distinguishes it in the mother 
country. The Governor of Massachusetts appoints a cer- 
tain number of justices of the peace in every county, whose 
ftmctions last seven years. He further designates three 
individuals from the whole body of justices, who form in 
each county what is called the Court of Sessions.* The 
justices take a personal share in the public administration ; 
they are sometimes intrusted with administrative ftmctions 
in conjimction with elected officers ; f they sometimes con- 

♦ The Court of Sessions no longer exists as such ; its functions have been 
merged in those of the ordinary legal tribunals. — Am. Ed. 

t Thus, for example, a stranger arrives in a township from a country 
where a contagious disease prevails, and he falls ill. Two justices of the 
peace can, with the assent of the selectmen, order the sheriff of the county 
to remove and take care of him. In general, the justices interfere in all the 
important acts of the administration^ and give them a aeim-3uàic\B\ c\vax«kK,\fix« 



94 DEMOCBACT IN AMERICA. 

stitute a tribunal, before whicli tlie maj^sliatM sunuiianlj 
prosecute a refractory citizen, or tlie citizens inform Igffifirt 
the abuses of the magUlrati^. But it is in tlie Court of 
Sessions that they exeivlio their most important tUncttona. 
This court meets twice a year, in the county town; in 
Massachusetts, it is empowered to enforce the ol&gt;edieiice of 
most* of the public officerB.-f It must bo observed that, 
in Massachusetts, the Court of Sessions is at the same lime 
an administrative body, properly so called, and a political 
tribunal. It has been mentioned that the county is a 
purely administrative division. The Court of Sessions 
presides over that small number of affiurs which, as they 
concern scvcnd townships, or all the towTiships of the 
county in common, cannot be intrusted to any one of 
them in particular.} In all that concerns county business^ 
the duties of the Court of Sessions are purely administra- 
tive ; and if in its procedure it occasionally introduces judi- 
cial forms, it is only with a «ew to its own information,^ 
or as a guaranty to those for whom it acts. But when the 
adininistration of the township is brought before il, it acts 



* I U7 moit of tbEm, becaiue ceitùu adminûtratiTe n 



brought before the otHbuij tribanals. If, for iIIgtanl^e, &gt; tOKuhip idniM 
to make the nocessaiy espcadiCure for its schools, or to nuns &amp; schootcont- 
mittce, it is liable to a, hcavj fiite. Bat this pcaaltj is protMoacad bj ths 
Bopreme Jadictal Court or the Court of Common PIcm. 

t In their individual capacity, the Jaiti&lt;«s of [ho Fcace take a pait in tha 
buunesa of tbe couotiea and townihips. In genentl, tba most impanaat 
acts of the town can be peiformed onijr with the concutiesce of eome ooo o£ 

t Theae af&amp;irs maj be brought under the fotlomng beads : — 1 ■ Tba mo&gt; 
tiOD of prisons and courts of justice. S. The county budget, which It after- 
wards roied by the St*&gt;« legislature. 3. The distribution of tha~ taxas an 
Totad. 4. Grants pf renain patent». 5. The laying down and r^iafai 
eouQty roHiU. [Most of those acts are now porfonned by tha Codd^ 
*■ ■ Am. Eu,] 

whim a road is luider coDsideistioo, almost all difficulliei an difr 
l^lliejniy. 



TOWNSHIPS AND MUNICIPAL BODIES. 95 

as a judicial body, and only in some few cases as an admin- 
istrative body. 

The first difficulty is, to make the township itself, an 
almost independent power, obey the general laws of the 
State. We have stated, that assessors are annually named 
by the town-meetings to levy the taxes. If a township 
attempts to evade the payment of the taxes by neglecting 
to name its assessors, the Court of Sessions condemns it to 
a heavy fine. The fine is levied on each of the inhabitants ; 
and the sheriff of the county, who is the officer of justice, 
executes the mandate. Thus, in the United States, gov- 
ernment authority, anxious to keep out of sight, hides itself 
under the forms of a judicial sentence ; and its influence is 
at the same time fortified by that irresistible power which 
men attribute to the formalities of law. 

These proceedings are easy to follow and to understand. 
The demands made upon a township are, in general, plain 
and accurately defined ; they consist in a simple fact, or in 
a principle without its application in detail.* But the diffi- 
culty begins when it is not the obedience of the township,* 
but that of the town officers, which is to be enforced. All 
the reprehensible actions which a public functionary can 
commit are reducible to the following heads : — 

He may execute the law without energy or zeal ; 

He may neglect what the law requires ; 

He may do what the law forbids. 

Only the last two violations of duty can come before a 
legal tribunal ; a positive and appreciable fiict is the indis- 

• There is an indirect method of enforcing the obedience of a township. 
Suppose that the funds which the law demands for the maintenance of the 
roads have not been voted ; the town surveyor is then authorized, ex offido^ 
to levy the supplies. As he is personally responsible to private individuals 
for the state of the roads, and indictable before the Court of Sessions, he is 
sure to employ the extraordinary right which the law gives him against the 
township. Thus, by threatening the officer, the Court of Sessions exacts 
compliance from the town. 



66 DEMOCBAcr m America. 

peitsable foundation of an action at law. Thaa, if i 
selectmen omit the legal formalities usual at town elecdi 
tliey may be fined. But when the officer performs liia d 
unskiltully, or obeys tho letter of tlie law without zeai ( 
energy, he is out of the reach of judicial interference. 
Court of Sessions, even when clothed with it&lt;lniiulstnitiq 
powers, is in this case onablv to enforce a more satis&amp;cta 
obedience. The fear of removal is the only check to thfll 
quasi -offences, and the Court of Sessions does not origtnaT 
the town autlioritiea ; it cannot remove functionaries wliof 
it does not appoint. Moreover, a per[X'tual supervîsid 
would be necessaiy to convict the officer of negligence V 
iukewarraness. Now the Com-t of Sessions sits but t^ 
a year, and then only judges such offences as are 1 
to its notice. The only security for that active and enligfat^ 
ened obedience, which a court of justice cannot enforce 
upon public fimotionaries, lies in the arbitrary removal of 
them from office. In France, this final security b exeiv 
cised by the heads of the administration ; in America, it iS 
obtained thrrwgh the principle of election, . 

Thus, to recapitulate in a few words what I bare dé* 
scribed: — 

If a public ofBcer in Nevr England commits a crime hi 
the exercise of his fiinctions, the ordinary courts of jnsliçe 
are always called upon to punish him. 

If he commits a fault in liis administrative capac!^, % 
purely administrative tribunal is empowered to punî^ 
him ; and, if the affîdr is important or urgent, the judge 
does what the functaeuary should have done.* 

Lastly, if the same individual is guilty of one of thoM 
Intangible offences which human justice can neither define 
nor appreciate, he annually appeaï^ before a tribunal from 

* If, for instance, a township peniste in refiuing to nsme iu «raenori, te 
Court of Sosaiona nominates them ; and the nugûtntea tho» appointed «ra 
inTestsd with the same antboritjr aa elected officen. 



- _»-- t_ 






TOWNSHIPS AND MUNICIPAL BODIES. ^ 97 

which there is no appeal, which can at once reduce him to 
insignificance, and deprive him of his charge. This system 
undoubtedly possesses great advantages, but its execution 
is attended with a practical difficulty, which it is important 
to point out. 

I have ahready observed, that the administrative tribunal, 
which is called the Court of Sessions, has no right of in- 
spection over the town officers. It can only interfere when 
the conduct of a magistrate is specially brought under its 
notice ; and this is the delicate part of the system. The 
Americans of New England have no public prosecutor for 
the Court of Sessions,* and it may readily be perceived 
that it would be difficult to create one. If an accusing 
magistrate had merely been appointed in the chief town 
of each county, and he had been unassisted by agents in 
the townships, he would not have been better acquainted 
with what was going on in the county than the members 
of the Court of Sessions. But to appoint his agents in 
each township would have been to centre in his person the 
most formidable of powers, that of a judicial administration. 
Moreover, laws are the children of habit, and nothing of 
the kind exists in the legislation of England. The Amer- 
icans have, therefore, divided the offices of inspection and 
complaint, as well as all the other functions of the adminis- 
tration. Grand-jurors are bound by the law to apprise the 
court to which they belong of all the misdemeanors which 
may have been committed in their county.f There are 
certain great ofiences which are officially prosecuted by 
the State ; J but, more frequently, the task of pimishing 

* I say the Court of Sessions, because, in common courts, there is an offi- 
cer {^e district attorney] who exercises some of the functions of a publie 
prosecutor. 

t The Grand-jurors are, for instance, bound to inform the court of the 
bad state of the roads. 

X If, for instance, the treasurer of the county holds back his accoiu\t&amp;. 



M DEMOCRACY IS AMERICA. 

delinquents devolves upon the fiscal oflEcer, ivhose proV 
inco it is tg receive the fine : thus, the treasnrer of t 
township 13 cliarged with the prosecution of such admin 
txative offences as fall under his notice. But a more espi 
cial appeal is made by American legislation to the privai 
interest of each citizen ; " and tliis great principle 
stantly to be met with in studying the laws of the Unite 
States. American legislators are more apt to give meg 
credit for intelligence tlian for honesty ; and they rely noÉ 
a little on personal interest for the execution of the lawi 
When an individual is really and sensibly injured by ■ 
administrative abuse, liis personal interest is a guarantj 
that he will prosecute. But if a legal formality be i 
quired, wlijcli, however advjintageous to the communityJ 
is of small importance to indiv!dnn!&gt;, pLiintifl':; may be less 1 
easily found ; and thus, by a tacit agreement, the laws may 
fell into disuse. Reduced by their system to this extremity, 
the Americans are obliged to encourage informera by b^ 
stowing on them a portion of the penalty in certain case« ; f 
and they thus insure the execution of the laws by the dan- 
gerous expedient of d^rading the morals of the peejde. 



* Tbna, to take ono example oat of a tiionsand, if a prirato it 
hntk» hi» carriage, or U wounded, in consoquenco of the badncaa of a road, 
he can sue the toimship or the coantj for damages at the gcasioDt. 

t la ouc» of invation or iniorrectioa, if the tonn offlccn neglect to ftn- 
nlah the ueccuarj eton» and smmanition for the militia, the towiwlûp nuçr 
\ie condemned to a fine of from SOO to 500 doUan. It ma; readtlj b« fa- 
agined tlml, in such a case, it might happen that no one nould caro to [mw- 
ec:nln ; ' hence the lav adds, that anj citizen maj enter a complaint fiv 
oflenecs of this kind, and that half the fine shall beiong to the proaocotor* 
See Act of Glh March, IBIO. The same cUuso ia frequently to be met with 
in (he I^WB of Maiwacliasetti. Ifot onlj are private individuala thtu indt«l 
to proeocuEc the public officers, but the public offleen are cnconnged la flu 
lame manner to bring the disobedience of private individuals to juitieo. IF 
ft dluon icfbsca to perform the work which has boon assigned to Urn npon » 
toad, the roul-aarrcyor niaj prosecute him, and, if convicted, ha m-diw 
hilf dw penally for hinuelf. 



afcïL:: 



TOWNSHIPS AND MUNICIPAL BODIES. 9ft 

Above the comity magistrates, there is, properly speak- 
g, no administrative power, but only a power of gov- 
nment. 



nig, 
emment. 



GENERAL BEMARKS ON THE ADMINISTRATION IN THE 

UNITED STATES. 

Differences of the States of the Union in their Systems of Administration. — 
Activity and Perfection of the Town Authorities decreases towards the 
Sonth. — Power of the Magistrates increases ; that of the Voter dimin- 
ishes. — Administration passes from the Township to the County. — 
States of Now York : Ohio : Pennsylvania. — Principles of Administra- 
tion applicable to the whole Union. — Election of Public Officers, and 
Inalienability of their Functions. — Absence of Gradation of Banks. — 
Introduction of Judicial Procedures into the Administration. 

I HAVE already said that, after examining the constitu- 
tion of the township and the county of New England in 
detail, I should take a general view of the remainder of the 
Union. Townships and town arrangements exist in every 
State; but in no other part of the Union is a township 
to be met with precisely similar to those of New England. 
The &amp;rther we go towards the South, the less active does 
the business of the township or parish become ; it has 
fewer magistrates, duties, and rights; the population ex- 
ercises a less immediate influence on affairs ; town-meetings 
are less fiequent, and the subjects of debate less numerous. 
The power of the elected magistrate is augmented, and 
that of the voter diminished, whilst the public spirit of 
the local communities is less excited and less influential.* 
These differences may be perceived to a certain extent in 
the State of New York ; they are very sensible in Penn- 

♦ For details, see the Revised Statutes of the State of New York, Part L 
Sec, in the Digest of the Laws of Pennsylvania, the words Assessors, 

COLLECTOB, CÎON8TABLE8, OvERSEER OP THE PoOR, SUPERVISORS OF 

HiOHWATS : and in the Acts of a general nature of the State of Ohio, the 
Act of the 25th of February, 1834, relating to townships, p. 412. 



100 D£UOCRACV IN AMERICA. 

gy Ivania ; but they become less striking as we tulvAsce 4 
the Xortlfweat. The majority of the emigrants who sel 
in the Northwestern States are natives of New Bn^ 
tind tliey carry the ailininistrative habit» of their mot 
Countty with Uiem into the country which they adt^nj 
A township ill Ohio is not unlike a township in Ma£ 
chusetis. 

We have soen that, in Massachosetts, t!ie mainspring afil 
public administration lies in tlie township. It fonns t' 
etmimon centre of the interests aiid allections of tlie cîfcfl 
izens. Bat this ceases to be the case as we descend to thai 
States in wliich knowledge is less genei-ally difliisud, anil 
where the townsliïp consequently offers fewer guarantii^ 
of a wise and active administration. As we leave Nei 
England, therefore, we find that the importance of tbnl 
town is gradually transterred to the couniy, which b 
the centre of administration, and the intermediate power 
between the government and the citizen. In MaasachiK 
Ktts, the business of the county is conducted by the Coozt 
of Sessions, which is composed of a quorum appointed by 
the Governor and hb Conncil ; but the county has no rep- 
resentative assembly, and its expenditure is voted by the 
State legislature. In the great State of New York, on the 
contrary, and in those of Ohio and Pennsylvania, tbe ii^ 
habitants of each county choose a certain number of rejo»- 
sentatives, who constitate the assembly of the conn^.* 
The county assembly has the right of taxing the inhale 
itants to a cert^n extent; and it is, in this respect, a real 

• S«e the lUviged Statutes of tbe State of New Tork, Pait L cli^&gt;. sL 
Vol. I. p. 340, Id., chap. xii. p. 366; alio, in the Am of tke 8um di 
Ohio, an act lelatiiig to count; coioiiiiuioDeTB, 2Sih Febnuuy, 1SS4, p. S6&gt;. 
See the Digeu of tbe Lawa of Pennsjlrania, at the trordi CoTrrrr-mtXWt 
and Letibb, p. 170. 

In the Slate of 'Sim York, each township elects a repreaentatiTO, irlio hM 
a iharo in the adnûnûtratioD of the connt; as w^ ai id that of the taan^ 



TOWNSHtfS ASD MUNICIPAL BODIES. 101 

I^^lative body: at the same time, it exercises an exeo* 
utive power in the county, frequently directs the admin- 
istration of the townships, and restricts their authority 
within much narrower boimds than in Massachusetts. 

Such are the principal differences which the systems of 
county and town administration present in the Federal 
States. Were it my intention to examine the subject in 
detail, I should have to point out àtill further differences 
in the executive details of the several commimities. But 
I have said enough to show the general principles on which 
the administration in the United States rests. These prin- 
ciples are differently applied : their consequences are more 
or less numerous in various locaUties ; but they are al- 
ways substantially the same. The laws differ, and their 
outward features change; but the same spirit animates 
them. If the township and the county are not everywhere 
organized in the same manner, it is at least true that, in 
the United States, the county and the township are alwajrs 
based upon the same principle ; namely, that every one is 
the best judge of what concerns himself alone, and the 
most proper person to supply his own wants. The town- 
ship and the coimty are therefore bound to take care of 
their special interests: the State governs, but does not 
execute the laws. Exceptions to this principle may be 
met with, but not a contrary principle. 

The first consequence of this doctrine has been to cause 
all the magistrates to be chosen either by the inhabitants, 
or at least from among them. As the officers are every- 
where elected or appointed for a certain period, it has been 
impossible to establish the rules of a hierarchy of author- 
ities ; there are almost as many independent functionaries 
as there are functions, and the executive power is dissem- 
inated in a multitude of hands. Hence arose the necessity 
of introducing the control of the courts of justice over the 
administration, and the system of pecuniary penaLtie^^ \jj 



102 DEMOCBAOT IN AXBBICyL 

which the secondary bodies and their repreaentelms 
constrained to obej the laws. This system dbtams &amp;mi 
one end of the Union to the other. The power of pmis 
ishing administrative misconduct, or of perfiirmiiigi i« 
urgent cases, administrative acts, has not, however, beM 
bestowed on the same judges in aU the 'States. Tbe 
Anglo-Americans derived the institution of justioes of the 
peace from a common source ; but althou^ it edsts in pli 
the States, it is not always turned to the same use. The 
justices of the peace everywhere participate in the aid^ 
ministration of the townships and the counties,* either as 
public officers, or as the judges of puUic mkdemeanon ; 
but in most of the States, the more important pubBe 
offences come under the cognizance of the ordinary tii* 
bunals. 

Thus, the election of public officers, or the inalienability 
of their functions, the absence of a gradation of powers, 
and the introduction of judicial action over the secondary 
branches of the administration, are the principal and uni- 
versal characteristics of the American system from Maine 
to the Floridas. In some States (and that of New York 
has advanced most in this direction) traces of a centralized 
administration begin to be discernible. In the State of 
New York, the officers of the central government exercise, 
in certain cases, a sort of inspection or control over the 
secondary bodies.f At other times, they constitute a sort 

* In some of the Southern States, the county courts are charged with aU 
the detail of the administration. See the Statutes of the State of Tennessee^ 
Art Judiciary, Taxes, &amp;c. 

t For instance, the direction of public instruction is centralized in the 
hands of the goTemment. The legislature names the members of the Uni- 
versity, who are denominated Kegents ; the Governor and Lientenant&gt;QoT- 
emor of the State arc necessarily of the numl)er. The Regents of tb0 
University annually visit the colleges and academies, and make their report 
lo ibe legislature. Their superintendence is not inefficient, for several re» 
ions : the Colleges, in order to become corporations, stand in need of a cbai^ 



&gt;'-»'*■»- •■-» 



TOWNSHIPS AND MUNICIPAL BODIES. 108 

of conrt of appeal for the decision of affairs.* In the 
State of New York, judicial penalties are less used than 
in other places as a means of administration ; and the right 
of prosecuting the offences of public officers is vested in 
fewer hands.f The same tendency k &amp;intly observable 
in some other States ; 1^ but, in general, the prominent 
feature of the administration in the United States is its 
excessive decentralization. 

ter, which is only granted on the recommendation of the Begents : every 
jear, foods are distributed bj the State for the encouragement of learning, 
and the Bègenta are the distributors of this monej. The school-commis- 
■ioners are obliged to send an annual report to the general Superintendent 
of the Schools. A similar report is annuallj made to the same person on 
the number and condition of the poor. 

* If anj one conccives himself to be wronged by the school-commission- 
en (who are town officers), he can appeal to the Superintendent of the Pri- 
mary Schools, whose decision is final. 

Provisions similar to those above cited are to be met with from time to 
time in the laws of the State of New York ; but, in general, these attempts 
at centralization are feeble and unproductive. The great authorities of the 
State have the right of watching and controlling the subordinate agents, 
without that of rewarding or punishing them. The same individual is 
never empowered to give an order and to punish disobedience ; he has, there- 
fore, the right of commanding, without the means of exacting compliance. 
In ISSO, the Superintendent of Schools, in his annual report to the legis- 
lature, complained that several school-commissioners had neglected, notwith- 
standing his application, to furnish him with the accounts which were due. 
He added that, if this omission continued, he should be obliged to prosecute 
them, as the law directs, before the proper tribunals. 

t Thus, the district-attorney is directed to recover all fines below the sum- 
of fifty dollars, imless such a right has been specially awarded to another 
magistrate. 

X Several traces of centralization may be' discovered in Massachusetts ; 
fbr instance, the committees of the town schools are directed to make aa 
annual report to the Secretary of State. 



DEMOCRACY I 



OF THE STATE, 



4 



I HAVE desci-ibed tlie townships and the adniioiatrft^on j 
it now remains for me to speak of the State and the gov- 
ernment. Tills is gromid I may pass over rapidly, without 
fear of being miaiinderstood ; for all I liiive to say is to be 
found in the various written constitutions, copies of which 
are easily to be procured. These constitutiona i-est upon 
a simple and rational tlieory ; most of their forms have 
been adopted by all coustitutional nations, and are become 
&amp;miUar to us. 

Here, then, I have only to give a brief account ; I shall 
endeavor afterwards to pass judgment npon what I now 
describe. _ 

LEGI3LATIVB rOWER OF TUB StXTS, ^ 

DiTuton of die LegisIatiTe Bod j into two Houses. — Senate. — Vo/aat of 
BeprcsenCatirea. — DiSerent !Fiuic^iia of theae two Bodiee. 

The le^slative power of the State is vested in two 
assemblies, the first of which generally bears ïbe nanw ' 
of the Senate. 

The Senate is commonly a legislative body ; but it Btnufr- 
times becomes an execadve and judicial one. It takes p«l ' 
in the government in several ways, according to the taik* 
■titntion of the different States ; * but it is in the nomiiUr' 
tion of public functionaries that it most commonly assamea 
an executive power. It partakes of judicial power in ti» - 
trial of certain political offences, and sometimes also in &amp;e 
decision of certain civil casea.f The nomber of its tseot- 
bers is alwaya small. 

The other branch of the legislature, which is oauflllif 

* In HusachoHttB, the Senate U not iuTefted with an; admiidctniâTC 
t Aa in dbs State of New Toik. 



' ■ 'f*-* -f: 



iB&amp; ti.^ — - 



THE STATE. 105 

called the House of Representatives, has no share what- 
ev^ in the administration, and takes a part in the judicial 
power only as it impeaches public functionaries before the 
Senate. 

The members of the two houses are nearly everywhere 
subject to the same conditions of eligibility. They are 
chosen in the same manner, and by the same citizens. 
The only difference which exists between them is, that the 
term for which the Senate is chosen is, in general, longer 
than that of the House of Representatives. The latter 
seldom Temain in office longer than a year; the former 
usually sit two or three years. 

By granting to the senators the privilege of being chosen 
for several years, and being renewed seriatim^ the law takes 
care to preserve in the legislative body a nucleus of men 
already accustomed to public business, and capable of exer- 
cising a salutary influence upon the new-comers. 

The Americans plainly did not desire, by this separation 
of the legislative body into two branches, to make one 
house hereditary and the other elective, one aristocratic 
and the other democratic. It was not their object to cre- 
ate in the one a bulwark to power, whilst the other repre- 
sented the interests and passions of the people. The only 
advantages which result from the present constitution of 
the two houses fti the United States are, the division of the 
legislative power, and the consequent check upon political 
movements ; together with the creation of a tribunal of 
appeal for the revision of the laws. 

Time and experience, however, have convinced the 
Americans that, even if these are its only advantages, 
the division of the legislative power is still a principle of the 
greatest necessity. Pennsylvania was the only one of the 
United States which at first attempted to establish a single 
House of Assembly ; and Franklin himself was so far car- 
ried away by the logical consequences of the princiçle of 

5* 




^ fttwniff^iy uf ^^ people, as to have concarred in the 
MKmt\* 1 tut I-liO Pennaylvaniftns were soon obliged to 
iht) kw, and to create two Louses. Thus tlu 
M^&gt;ii4« of the divisioii of tlie le^sktive power wan 
^i/uiiiy wtablisliLd, and its necessity may henceforward be 
iv^nlvtl aa a demonstrated truth. This tlicory, ucarljr 
Ht^uown to the republics of antiquily, — first intnxinced 
■Uto the world almost by accident, like so many other great 
tniths, and misunderatood by several modem nations, — is 
fit K^igtb become an axiom in tlie political science of thfl 
yTMiuiit age. 



THE EXECUTIVE POWER OF THK 8TATB. 



«iBMM^I 



I 



OOlre of GoïiTnor in un American Sum. — His Relation to the LcgUl 
— Hii lUghiB and hi» Duties. — Hii Dependeooe oa the People, 

The executive power of the State is rq&gt;reëenteà hy tlte 
Governor. It is not by accident that I have used this 
word; the Governor represerUt this power, although be 
enjoys but a portion of ita rights. The supreme nu^ft» 
trate, imder the title of Governor, is the ofBcial moderatOT 
and counsellor of the legislature. He is armed with ■ 
veto or suspensive power, which allows him to stop, or life 
least to retard, its movements at pleasure. He lays the 
wants of the country before the le^latjve body, and p&lt;niitB 
out the means which be thinks may be usc&amp;Uy empli^red 
in providing for them ; he is the natural executor of its 
decrees in all the nndertakings which interest the nation at 
lai^.* In the absence of the legislature, the Governor is 
bound to take all necessaiy steps to guard the State a 
TioWt shocks and unforeseen dangers. 

* PncdcaJIy «peaking, il ta not alwajB the Governor who ezacotM 
plant of the L^latnre ; it ofien hnppeiu that the Utter, in TotJng a s 
at^ BMnci ipedal agents lo eupetinceud the u 






THE STATE. 107 

The whole militury power of the State is at the disposal 
of the Governor. He is the commander of the militia, 
and head of the armed force. When the authority, which 
is by general consent awarded to the laws, is disregarded, 
the Governor puts himself at the head of the armed force 
of the State, to quell resistance and restore order. 

Lastly, the Governor takes no share in the administra- 
tion of the townships and counties, except it be indirectly 
in the nomination of Justices of the Peace, which nominar 
tion he has not the power to cancel.* 

The Governor is an elected magistrate, and is generally 
chosen for one or two years only ; so that he always con- 
tinues to be strictly dependent upon the majority who re- 
turned him. 



jV^ 



POUTICAL EFFECrrS OP DECENTRALIZED ADMINISTRATION IN 

THE UNITED STATES. 

Keoeasaiy Distinction between a Centralized Goremment and a Centralized 
Administration. — Administration not Centralized in the United States : 
great Centralization of the Government. — Some bad Consequences re- 
salting to the United States from the extremely decentralized Adminis- 
tradon. — Administrative Advantages of this Order of Things. — The 
Power which administers is less Regular, less Enlightened, less Learned, 
but much greater than in Europe. — Political Advantages of this Order 
of Things. — In the United States, the Country makes itself felt every- 
where. — Support given to the Government by the Community. — Pro- 
vincial Institutions more necessary in Proportion as the social Condition 
becomes more Democratic. — Reason of this. 

Centralization is a word in general and daily use, 
without any precise meaning being attached to it. Never- 
theless, there exist two distinct kinds of centralization, 
which it is necessary to discriminate with accuracy. 

* In some of the States, justices of the peace are not appointed by tha 
QoTemor. 



108 DEMOCRACY IN AMERICA. 

Certain interests are common to all parts of a naiaon, 
such as the enactment of its general laws, and the main- 
tenance of its foreign relations. Other interests are pe- 
culiar to certain parts of the nation ; such, for instance, as 
the business of the several townsliips. When the power 
which directs the former or general interests is concen- 
trated in one place or in the same persons, it constitutes a 
centralized government. To concentrate in like manner 
into one place the direction of the latter or local interests^ 
constitutes what may be termed a centralized admini»* 
tration. 

Upon some points, these two kinds of centralization co&gt; 
incide ; but by classifying the objects which fall more par- 
ticularly within the province of each, they may easily be 
distin&lt;niished. 

It is evident that a centralized government acquires 
immense power when imited to centralized administration. 
Thus combined, it accustoms men to set their own will 
habitually and completely aside; to submit, not only for 
once, or upon one point, but in every respect, and at all 
times. Not only, therefore, does this union of power sub- 
due them compulsorily, but it affects their ordinary habits ; 
it isolates them, and then influences each separately. 

These two kinds of centralization mutually assist and 
attract each other ; but they must not be supposed to be 
inseparable. It is impossible to imagine a more completely 
centralized government than that wliich existed in France 
under Louis XIV. ; when the same individual was the 
author and the interpreter of the laws, and the representa- 
tive of France at home and abroad, he was justified in 
asserting that he constituted the state. Nevertheless, the 
administration was much less centralized under Louis XIV. 
than it is at the present day. 

In England, the centralization of the government is 
carried to great perfection; the state has the compact 



■~ "■ ■ii'»'»J*|^^l^rpr«— ^_ ^^ ^ «. . If- - ■ 



THE STATE. 109 

vigor of one man, and its will puts immense masses in 
motion, and tnms its whole power where it pleases. But 
England, which has done so great things for the last fiftj 
years, has never centralized its administration. Indeed, I 
cannot conceive that a nation can live and prosper without 
a powerful centralization of government. But I am of 
opinion that a centralized administration is fit only to ener- 
vate the nations in which it exists, by incessantly dimin- 
ishing their local spirit. Although such an administration 
can bring together at a given moment, on a given point, 
all the disposable resources of a people, it injures the re- 
newal of those resources. It may insure a victory in the 
hour of strife, but it gradually relaxes the sinews of 
strength. It may help admirably the transient greatness 
of a man, but not the durable prosperity of a nation. 

Observe, that whenever it is said that a state cannot act 
because it is not centralized, it is the centralization of the 
government which is spoken of. It is frequently asserted, 
and we assent to the proposition, that the German empire 
has never been able to bring all its powers into action. 
But the reason was, that the state was never able to en- 
force obedience to its general laws ; the several members 
of that great body always claimed the right, or found the 
means, of refusing their co-operation to the representatives 
of the common authority, even in the affairs which con- 
cerned the mass of the people ; in other words, there was 
no centralization of government. The same remark is 
iqpplicable to the Middle Ages ; the cause of all the mis- 
eries of feudal society was, that the control, not only of 
administration, but of government, was divided amongst a 
thousand hands, and broken up in a thousand different 
ways. The want of a centralized government prevented 
the nations of Europe from advancing with enev^ in any 
straightforward course. 

We have shown that, in the United States, there \a no 



k 



lîO DEMOCRACY DJ AMERICA- 

centralized administration, and rio hierarcliy of public 
tlonaiies. Local authority has been carriwl farUier 1 
any European nation could endure without gnat înei 
venience, and it has even produced some disadvanta; 
consequences in America. But in tlie United Statos, t 
centralization of tho government is perfect ; and it ^v 
bo easy to prove tliat the national power ia more cancel 
tmted there than it has ever been in the old nations d 
Europe. Not only is there but one legislative btiHy i 
each State, — not only does there exist but one source a 
political authority, — but numerous assombli« in diâtrid 
or counties liavo not, in general, been multiphed, lest thfl 
should be tempted to leave their administrative duties a 
interfere with the govommont. In America, the legisb 
ture of each State is supreme; nothing can impede itf 
authority, — neither privileges, nor local immonitie^, mit 
personal influence, nor even the empire of reason, sinc« É 
represents tliat majority which claims to be the sole orgn 
of reason. Its own determination is, therefore, the aalf 
limit to its action. In juxtaposition with it, and under Ul 
immediate control, is the representative of the execDtn* 
power, whose duty it is to constram the refractoiy to solh 
mit by superior force. The only symptom of weaknen 
lies in certain details of the action of the government. 
The American republics have no «tanding armies to bt&gt; 
tjmidate a discontented minority ; but as no minority hia 
as yet been reduced to declare open war, the necessity of 
an army has not been felt. The State usually employs thB 
oflficers of the township or the county to deal with the &lt;Hti* 
zens. Thus, for instance, in New England, the town 
assessor fixes the rate of taxes ; the town collector nceavim 
them ; the town treasurer transmits the amount to the pnb- 
lic treasury ; and the disputes which may arise are broo^^ 
before the ordinary courts of justice. Tliis method of oat* 
lec&amp;ig taxes is slow as well as inconvenient, and it waM 



THE STATE. Ill 

prove a perpetual bindiBnce to a government whose pecn- 
niaiy demands were large. It is desirable that, in whab- 
ever materially affects its existence, the government should 
be served by officers of its own, appointed by itself, re- 
movable at its pleasure, and accustomed to rapid methods 
of proceeding. But it will always be easy for the central 
govemmeot, oiganized as it is in America, to introduce 
more energy and efficacious modes of action according 
to its wants.^,^ • 

The want of a'&amp;Bi)|ralized government will not, then, as 
has often been asserted, prove the destruction of the re- 
publics of the New World ; far from the American gov- 
ernments being not sufficiently centralized, I shall prove 
hereafter that they are too much so. The legislative 
bodies daily encroach upon the authority of the govern- 
ment, and tlieir tendency, like that of the French Conven- 
tion, is to appropriate it entirely to themselves. The social 
power thus centralized is constantly changing hands, 
because it is subordinate to the power of the people. It 
often forgets the maxims of wisdom and foresight in the 
consciousness of its strength. Hence arises its danger. 
Its viflor. and not its imnntPnfP. will prnTiahly h^ ili^ ^misft 
flf^ita uUimiit^ .Ipstrurtion. 

The system of decentralized administration produces 
several different effects in America. The Americans seem 
to me to have outstepped the limits of sound policy, in 
isolating the administration of the government: for order, 
even in secondary affairs, is a matter of national impor- 
tance.* As the State has no administrative functionaries 

• Tho ttutlioritj which repre«entB the State onght not, I think, (o waiTe 
tlie right of inspecting tho local administntion, even wlicn it di&gt;cs not itsolf 
■dmtniïler. Suppose, for ioBtance, that on agent of llic t^ovcrnincnt wu 
Hationcl at tomo appointed epot in coeh coantj, to prosecute tlie miide- 
Ifmrn of tlic town and conntj officers, would not n more utufonn order 
be tb« icsalt, wiiliout in auj w^ compronùtiog tho itukpcoAcoco ot ÛM 



TDS DEMOCRACY IS AMERICA- 

of its own, Btetioned on different pointa of its tmritoiy, 1 
whom it can give a common impulse, the consequonco â 
that it rarely attempts to bsue any general police i 
-tiens. The want of these regulations is «everely («It, * 
is frequently ohaerred by Europeans, The nppeanuiW i 
disorder which prevails on the surface leads him at first ^ 
iui£^ne that society is in a state of anarchy : nor does 1 
perceive lus mistake till he has gone deeper into the t 
ject. Certain undertakings are of importance to the wb 
State ; but they cannot be put in execution, bec&amp;tue ths 
is no State administration to direct them. Abandoi 
to the exertions of the towns or counties, under tiua c 
of elected and temporary agents, they lead to no remit, 4 
ftt least to no durable benetit. 

The partisans of centralization in Europe are wont^ ■* 
maintain that the government can administer the aflhirs a 
each locality better than the citizens conld do it fin- ilamm 
selves ; this may be true, when the central power à cm 
lightened, and die local authorities are ignc»w)t ; ■ whs tH 
is alert, and they are slow ; when it b accustomed to mot^ 
and thny to obey. Indeed, it is evident that this dmU» 
tendency must augment with ^e increase of centralizatiait, 
and that the readiness of the one and the incapad^ &lt;^ Urn 
others must become more and more prominent. But I 
deny that it is so, when the people are as enlightened, t» 
awake to their interests, and as accustomed to r^ect.ca. 

township 1 Nothing of the kind, however, exists in America : Aen k fp^ 
mg abora the count; coarts, which hnve, tn it were, only aa inddeolM 4G^ 
niuDce of tbs adminiatntÎTe oSênves the; ought to repren. 

[Ht. Speocor proper! j remuka, that "such an agent u the author h«a 
ioggcMa nmiUd aoon come ta be canddend % public informer, thé mcM ofr 
ODi of all cluracten in the United Stale* ; and he would low «U cBciMMf 
and atiengch." Whereaa, aa it ii, the cooitant prcaeace of the diatiict aKo»' 
tuj, and the meeting of a gnmd jury threo or fonr timea a jear In avNf- 
oouUf, to whom Cferf aggrieved peraon has &amp;ee access, ai« RiSàeDi fi^ 
taaàoM againal tha miacondoct or neglect of the local officen. — Am. K»j 



rem 




STATS. US 

tihem, as the Americans are. I am persuadcKl? on the con- 
trary, that, in this case, the collective strength of the 
sens will always conduce more efficaciously t^^e 
-welfare than the authority of the government, 
is difficult to point out with certainty the meai 
ing a sleeping population, and of giving it p 
knowledge which it does not possess; it is, 
aware, an arduous task to persuade men to busy 
about their own affairs. It would frequently be easier to 
interest them in the pimctilios of court etiquette, than in 
the repairs of their common dwelling. But whenever a 
central administration affects completely to supersede the 
persons most interested, I believe that it is either misled, or 
desirous to mislead. However enlightened and skilful a 
central power may be, it cannot of itself embrace all the 
details of the life of a great nation. Such vigilance ex- 
ceeds the powers of man. And when it attempts unaided 
to create and set in motion so many complicated springs, it 
must submit to a very imperfect result, or exhaust itself in 
bootless efforts. 

Centralization easily succeeds, indeed, in subjecting the 
external actions of men to a certain uniformity, which we 
come at last to love for its own sake, independently of the 
objects to which it is applied, like those devotees who wor- 
ship the statue, and forget the deity it represents. Cen- 
tralization imparts without difficulty an admirable regular- 
ity to the routine of business ; provides skilfully for the 
details of the social police ; represses small disorders and 
petty misdemeanors ; maintains society in a statu quo alike 
secure from improvement and decline ; and perpetuates a 
drowsy regularity in the conduct of affairs, which the heads 
of the administration are wont to call good order and pub- 
lic tranquillity ; * in short, it excels in prevention, but not 

* China appears to me to present the most perfect instance of that spo- 
dioè of well-being which a highlj centralized administration, XûJKjji tanÂ&amp;\i ^ 



m MMOGBAOT 01: àMEMBtOà. 

^ «Mtt.* Iti foacce deserts it, wlm socie!^ ji lO^lliftM» 
limrfh" moved, or accelerated m ite oo«]ne;'iad:iC-JH|| 
ili^ K&gt;M)pentioo of private dtiieiu k neoeneiy^to U»»ih% 
ili^yyuice of its measures, the secret of its impoMhoe 19 dMr 
&lt;k««:J* Even whilst the centraliaed power, in its dsipdkk 
invx^kcs the assistance of thô dtissens, it says to them: ^^^W 
y^^ ^^l act just as I please, as much as I please, and m 4if 
dinvtion which I please. Tou are .to take dnoge of li§ 
details, without aspiring to guide the system; 7QI1 avaJi 
work in darkness; and afiterwards you may judge rWf 
work by its results/' These are not the conditioDaH)|| 
which the alliance of the human will is to be obtai|ipd.£:iJk 
most be free in its gait, and responsible for Hs.acta^« 
(such is the constitution of man) the citizen had tÊÛndt 
f&amp;nsin a passive spectator, than a dependent afetor, in 
ichemes witli which he is unacquainted. 

It is undeniable, that the want of those uniform reguli^ 
tions which control the conduct of every inhabitant of 
France, is not unfrcquently felt in the United States. 
Gross instances of social indifférence and ne^ect are to 
be met with ; and from time to time, disgracefid blemishes 
gro seen, in complete contrast with the surrounding civile 
station. Useful undertakings, which cannot succeed with- 
out perpetual attention and rigorous exactitude, are fire- 
qnontly almndoned ; for in America, as well as in other 
countries, the people proceed by sudden impulses and 
imiuientnry exertions. The European, accustomed to find 
g fuurtionary always at hand to interfere with all he un- 

Im ■ultjocts. Travellers assoro us that the Cliincsc have tranqnillity withool 
l^piiioKs, industry without impro^-emcnt, stability without strength, nd 
Mittlio onlcr without public morality. The condition of society then il 
llWMVii tolornblo, novor excellent. I imagine that, when Chin« is opeasd 
m Kuntponn ol^'rvation. it will l)c found to contain the most pedfect modal 
g| ^ tHMtlrnliy^Ml ndministnuion which exists in the univerae. 

• ThlM il* n lively and faitliful description of the system which Dickieos iHi 
lUl u» to stiKmiuiav by tlic name of •* rod-tape." — An. £1». 



f' ttW fcl **• ■«■ ■ "j "* 



THE STATE. 115 

dertakes, reconciles himself with difficulty to the complex 
mechanism of the administration of the townships. In 
general, it may be affirmed that the lesser details of the 
police, which render hfe easy and comfortable, dre neglect- 
ed in America, but that the essential guaranties of man in 
society are as strong there as elsewhere. In America, the 
power which conducts the administration is far less regular^ 
less enhghtened, and less skilful, but a hundred-fold greater, 
than in Europe. In no country in the world, do the citi- 
zens make such exertions for the common weal. I know 
of no people who have established schools so numerous and 
efficacious, places of public worship better suited to the 
wants of the inhabitants, or roads kept in better repair. 
Uniformity or permanence of design, the minute arrange- 
ment of details,* and the perfection of administrative sjrs- 
tem, must not be sought for in the United States : what 

• A writer of talent, who, in a comparison of the finances of France with 
those of the United States, has proved that ingenuity cannot always snpply 
the place of the knowledge of facts, justly reproaches the Americans for thé 
tort of confusion which exists in the accounts of the expenditure in the town- 
•hips ; and after giving the model of a Departmental Budget in France, he 
adds : " "We are indebted to centralization, that admirable invention of a 
great man, for the order and method which prevail alike in all the municipal 
budgets, from the largest city to the humblest commune." Whatever may be 
my admiration of this result, when I see the communes of France, with their 
excellent system of accounts, plunged into the grossest ignorance of their 
true interests, and abandoned to so incorrigible an apathy that they seem to 
v^etate rather than to live ; when, on the other hand, I observe the activity, 
the information, and the spirit of enterprise in those American townships 
whose budgets are neither methodical nor uniform ; I see that society there is 
always at work. I am struck by the spectacle ; for to my mind, the end of a 
good government is to insure the welfare of a people, and not merely to estabr 
liah order in the midst of its misery. I am therefore led to suppose, that 
the prosperity of the American townships and the apparent confusion of their 
finances, the distress of the French communes and tlie perfection of their 
budget, may be attributable to the same cause. At any rate, I am suspicious 
ef a good which is united with so many evils, and I am not averse to an evil 
which is compensated by so many benefits. . • 



116 BEMOCBAOT IN AKBRIGA. 

wc find there ia, the pretence of m power wliidipH^it h 
Homewhat wild, is at least robust, and an Fnstfncft chedhj, 
itntd with accidents, ihdeed, bat full of animation and- A 

fort. 

Granting, for an instant, that the villages and cormtin 
of thtt United States would be more nsefoSy governed hf^^ 
&lt;*(iritnil authority, whidbi they had never seen, than by fiiiiDv 
tionaries taken from among them, — admitting, fi&gt;r the aakii 
of ar^nmont, that there would be more secority in Amapt 
ira, and the resources of society would be better emptajoi 
tliuns if the whole administration centred in a single an% 
— still the political advantages which the Americans derilifi 
from tlieir decentralized system would induce me to pcete 
it to the contrary plan. It profits me but little, after aBi 
that a vigilant authority always protects the tranquillity of 
my pleasures, and constantly averts all dangers from my 
path, without my care or concern, if this same authority is 
the absolute master of my liberty and my Ufe, and if it so 
monopolizes movement and life, that when it languishes 
everything languishes around it, that when it sle^ every- 
thing must sleep, and that when it dies the state itself must 
perish. 

There are countries in Europe, where the natives con- 
sider themselves as a kind of settlers, indifferent to the fiite 
of the spot wliich they inhabit. The greatest changes are 
effected there without their concurrence, and (unless chance 
may liave apprised them of the event) without their knowt 
edge ; nay, more, the condition of liis village, the police of 
his street, the repairs of die church or the parsonage, do 
not concern him ; for he looks upon all these things as un- 
connected with liimself, and as the property of a powerful 
stranger whom he calls the government. He has only a 
life-interest in these possessions, without the spirit of owne*»- 
ship or any ideas of improvement. This want of interest 
in his own aflairs goes so fiu*, that if his own safety or that 



THE STATE. 117 

of liis children is at last endangered, instead of tiying tu 
avert the peril, he will fold his arms, and wait till the 
whole nation cornea to tia aid. This man, who has so 
completely sacrificed his own free will, does not, more than 
•ny other person, love obedience ; he cowers, it is true, 
before the pettiest officer ; hut he braves the law with the 
spirit of a conquered foe, as soon as its superior force is 
withdrawn : he perpetually oscillates between servitude and 
lic^ise. 

When a nation has arrived at this state, it must either 
ciiaDge its customs and its laws, or perish ; for the source 
of public virtues is dried up ; and though it may cont^n 
anbjects, it bas no citizens. Such communities arc a natu- 
ral prey to foreign conquests ; and if they do not wholly 
disappear from tlie scene, it is only because they are sur- 
rounded by other nations similar or inferior to themselves j 
it is because they still have an indefinable instinct of 
patriotism ; and an involuntary pride in the name of their 
country, or a vague reminiscence of its bygone fame, suffices 
to give them an impulse of self-preservation. 

Nor can the prodigious exertions made by certain nations 
to defend a country in which they had lived, so to speak, 
as strangers, be adduced in favor of such a system ; for it 
will be foTuid that, in these cases, their main incitement 
■was religion. The permanence, the glory, or the prosperity 
of the nation were become parts of their feith ; and in de- 
fending their country, they defended also that Holy City 
of which they were all citizens. The Turkish tribes have 
never taken an active share in the conduct of their afiàirs ; 
but they accomplished stupendous enterprises, as long as the 
victories of the Sultan were triumphs of the Mohammedan, 
faith. In the present age, they are in rapid decjiy, because 
their religion is departing, and despotism only remains. 
Montesquieu, who attributed to absolute power an author- - 
i^ pecaliar to itself, did it, as I conc^vo, an unàe&amp;erveàL 



i 



lis UEMOGBACr m 

boDor ; for deqiotin, taken hy itadl^ cm WBÊiafiÊSk^ 
durable. On dose in yectinn, we dnD find Aat inHyna', 
and not fear^ has ever been Ûm cause cf Ûib kn gEm i 
prosperity of an absolate govemment. Do what yoa tut/i^ 
there is no true power among men eaeept in the fieènnion 
of their will ; anii patriotism or reli^on aie the onlf tué 
motives in the worid which can kng mge udl the peofh 
towards the same end. i ■ ■ 

Laws cannot rekindle an extingiiiahed fiuth; hot noi 
may be interested by the laws in the Site of thflir coantPf. 
It dei&gt;ends upon the laws to awaken and direet tlw tngns 
impulse of patriotism, which never abandons ike fadnan 
heart ; and if it be connected with the thov^ls, IIm paÉ» 
sions, and tlie daily habits of life, it may be conaolidatBd 
into a durable and rational sentiment. Let it not be said 
that it is too late to make the experiment ; for nations do 
not grow old as men do, and every fresh generation is a 
new people ready for the care of the legislator. 

It is not the adminUtrative^ but the political effects of 
decentralization, that I most admire in America. In the 
United States, the interests of the country are everywhere 
kept in view ; they are an object of solicitude to the people 
of the whole Union, and every citizen is as warmly attached 
to tliem as if they were his own. He takes pride in the 
glory of his nation ; he boasts of its success, to which he 
conceives himself to have contributed ; and he rejoices in 
the general prosperity by which he profits. The feeling 
he entertains toward the state is analogous to that which 
unites him to his &amp;mily, and it is by a kind of selfishness 
that he interests liimself in the welfare of his country. 

To the European, a public officer represents a superior 
force : to an American, he represents a right. In America^ 
then, it may be said that no one renders obedience to man^ 
but to justice and to law. If the opinion which the citizen 
entertains of himself is exaggerated, it is at least salutary; 



TBE STATE. 119 

he unhesitatingly confides in his own powers, which appear 
to him to be all-^ufBcient. When a private individual 
meditates an undertaking, however directly connected it 
may be with the welfare of society, he never thinks of 
soliciting the co-operation of the government ; but he pub- 
lishes his plan, offers to execute it, courts the assistance of 
other individuals, and struggles manfully against all obstar 
cles. Undoubtedly he is often less successful than the state 
might have been in his position ; but in the end, the sum 
of these private undertakings &amp;r exceeds all that the gov 
«mment could have done. 

As the administrative authority is within the reach of 
the citizens, whom in some degree it represents, it excites 
neither their jealousy nor hatred : as its resources are limit- 
ed, every one feels that he must not rely solely on its aid. 
Thus, when the administration thinks fit to act within its 
own limits, it is not abandoned to itself, as in Europe ; the 
duties of private citizens are not supposed to have lapsed 
because the state has come into action ; but every one is 
ready, on the contrary, to guide and support it. This 
action of individuals, joined to that of the public authori- 
ties, fi:^uently accomplishes what the most energetic cen- 
tralized administration woiild be unable to do.* 

It would be easy to adduce several facts in proof of 
what I advance, but I had rather give only one, with 
which I am best acquainted. In America, the means 
which the authorities have at their disposal for the discov- 
ery of crimes and the arrest of criminals are few. A state 
police does not exist, and passports are unknown. The 
criminal police of the United States cannot be compared to 
that of France ; the magistrates and public agents are not 
numerous; they do not always initiate the measures for 
arresting the guilty ; and the examinations of prisoners are 
rapid and oral. Yet I believe that in no country does 

• See Appendix L 



120 DEMOGKACnr IN AMBRIOA. 

crime more rarely dude punishment. Tbe 
every one conceives himself to be interested in 
evidence of the crime, and in seisng the driiimiifi'i 
During my stay in ike United States. I witnessed Am 
spont^eom forLtion of conunitteTb^ » ««aly ftr te 
pursuit and prosecution of a man who had oommittad a 
great crime. In Europe, a criminal is an woîbappf msà 
who is struggling for his life against the ugfrnik ai jfM, 
whilst the people are merely a spectator of the conflict: im 
America, he is looked upon as an' enemy of the hmiiaB 
race, and the whole of mankind is against him* • 

I believe that provincial institutions are usefbl to aB, 
nations, but nowhere do Uiey appear to me to fa# 
necessary than amongst a democratic people. In an 
tocracy, order can always be maintained in the midst of 
liberty ; and as the rulers have a great deal to lose, order 
is to them a matter of great interest. In Uke manner, an 
aristocracy protects the people from the excesses of des- 
potism, because it always possesses an organized power 
ready to resist a despot. But a democracy without pro- 
vincial institutions has no security against these evils. 
How can a populace, imaccustoined to freedom in small 
concerns, leam to use it temperately in great affidrs? 
Wliat resistance can be offered to tyranny in a country 
where each individual is weak, and where the citiaens are 
not united by any common interest? Those who dread 
the license of the mob, and those who fear absolute power, 
ouglit alike to desire the gradual development of provincial 
liberties. 

I am also convinced, that democratic nations are most 
likely to fall beneath the yoke of a centralized administra* 
tion, for several reasons, amongst wliich is the following. 

The constant tendency of these nations is to concentrate 
all the strength of tlie government in the hands of the 
only power wliich directly represents the people ; because, 



THE STATE. 121 

beyond the people, nothing is to be perceived but a mass 
of equal individuals. But when the same power already 
has all the attributes of government, it can scarcely re- 
frain from penetrating into the details of the adminis- 
tration, and an (^portunity of doing so is sure to present 
itself in the long run, as was the case in France. In the 
French Revolution, there were two impulses in opposite 
directions, which must never be confounded ; the one was 
favoi^able to liberty, the other to despotism. Under the 
ancient monarchy, the king was the sole author of the 
laws ; and below the power of the sovereign, certain ves- 
tiges of provincial institutions, half destroyed, were still dis- 
tinguishable. These provincial institutions were incohe- 
pent, ill arranged, and fi^equently absurd ; in the hands iÂ 
the aristocracy, they had sometimes been converted into 
instruments of oppression. The Revolution declared itsdf 
the enemy at once of royalty and of provincial institutions ; 
it confounded in indiscriminate hatred all that had pre- 
ceded it, — despotic power and the checks to its abuses; 
and its tendency was at once to republicanize and to cen- 
tralize. Tliis double character of the French Revolution 
is a fact which has been adroitly handled by the friends of 
absolute power. Can they be accused of laboring in the 
cause of despotism, when they are defending that central- 
ized administration which was one of the great innovations 
of the Revolution ? * In this manner, popularity may be 
united with hostility to the rights of the people, and the 
secret slave of tyranny may be the professed lover of 
freedom. 

I have visited the two nations in wliich the system of 
provincial liberty has been most perfectly established, and 
I have listened to the opinions of different parties in those 
countries. In America, I met with men who secretly 
aspired to destroy the democratic institutions of the Union ; 

* See Appendix K. 



122 DEUOCKACY m AUERICA. 

in England, I found others who openly attacked the aris- 
tocracj ; but I I'oiind no one wlio did not regard provincial 
idence as a great good. In both countries, I heard 
. different causes assigned for the evils of the 
stat« ; but the local system was never mentioned amongst 
them. I hoard citizens attribute the power and prosperity 
V of their country to a multitude of reasons; but they all 
placed the advantages of local institutions in the foremost 
rank. 

Am I to HU[)pose that when men, who are naturally bo 
divided on religious opinions and on political theories, agree 
on one point, (and that one which they can best judge, as 
it is one of «'hich they liave daily experience,) they are all 
in error? The only nations wliifh deny the utility of ])To- 
TÏncial liberties are those which have fewest of them ; in 
other words, those only censure the institution who do not 
know iL 



JUDICUL POWEB IN THE UmTED STATES. 



CHAPTER VI. 



The Aoglo-Aioericsiu baye rcloiiied tli« CbamcurisCics of JadidaT Power 
which are common to other Notions. — They have, however, m&gt;d« ft a 
powerfii] politiotl Organ. — How. — Id what the Judicial System of the 
Anglo-American» differs from that of all other Nation». — Why the 
American Judges have the Bight of declaring Lawa to be unconaCitil- 
dooal. — How they use this Right. — Precautioni taken by the Legisla- 
tor 10 prevent ita Abase. 

I HAVE thought it right to devote a separate chapter 
to the judicial authorities of the United States, lest 
their great political importance should be lessened in the 
reader's eyes by a merely incidental mention of them. 
Confederations have existed in other countries beside 
America ; I have seen republics elsewhere than upon the 
shores of the New World alone : the representative system 
of government has been adopted in several states of Eu- 
rope; but I am not aivare that any nation of the globe 
has hitherto organized a judicial power in the same man- 
ner as the Americans. The judicial organization of the 
United States is the institution which a stranger has the 
greatest difficulty in understanding. He hears the au- 
thority of a judge invoked in the political occarreDces of 
every day, and he natorally concludes that, in tJie Uoitg 
States, the judges are important ])olitical fun 
nevertheless, when he examines tlie natur e of tin? i 
nais, they offer at the first gl^; 
trary to the nsnal halntt t 




isi-d of malversation to its bar, its political iiifluet 
&lt;\\&lt;:hl boily was cloarly visible; but iiothiiifi of tlic 
' III' si'L'ii in ilio United States. The Anicricims 
iiied all the ordinary cliaracteris lies of judicial ai 
and have carefully restricted its action to the ord 
le of "its fiiiictions, 

rbo first cliaracleristic of judicial power in all iiatj&lt; 
du^ of arbitration. But rights must be &lt;H)nte8t 
9r to warmiit the interference of a tnhuual; an 
on must be bruught before the décision of a jadg&lt; 
had. As long, therefore, as a law is uncontested 
icial authority is not called upon to dixeusa it, u 
/ exist without being perceived. When a judge 
m case attacks a law rcliiling to that case, he exi 
circle of his euslomary duties, without, (luwev^, 
Ç beyond it, since he is in souie mea.'iare oUige 
ide upon the law in order to decide the C[«e. B: 
jronoiuicea upon a law without proceeding from a &lt; 
riearly steps beyond hia sphere, aud invades that of 
îlative authority, 

"he second characteristic of jui^cial power is, tlu 
lounces on special cases, and not ujion yineral pr 
. It' a judge, in deciding a particular point, destrr 



JUDICIAL POWEB DI THE UNITED STATES. 125 

more nsefiil inSuence, Uian that of the magistrate ; but he 
ceases to represent the judicial power. 

The third characteristic of the judicial power is, that 
it can ooly act when it is called upon, or when, in legal 
phrase, it lias taken cognizance of an afiàir. This charac- 
teristic is less general than the other two ; but, notwith- 
standing the exceptions, I think it may be regarded as 
essential. The judicial power is, by its nature, devoid of 
action ; it must be put in motion in order to produce a 
result. When it is called upon to repress a crime, it pun- 
ishes the criminal ; when a wrong is to be redressed, it ia 
ready to redress it ; when an act requires interpretation, H 
is prepared to interpret it ; but it does not pursue criminals, 
hunt out wrongs, or examine evidence of its own accord. 
Â judicial functionary who should take the initiative, and 
usurp the censuroship of the laws, would in some measuie 
do violence to the passive nature of hia authority. 

The Americana have retained tJiese three distinguishing 
cliaracteristies of the judicial power: an American judge 
can only pronounce a decision when litigation has arisen, 
he is conversant only with special cases, and he cannot act 
until the cause has Ixjen duly brought before the court. 
His position is, therefore, perfectly similar to that of the 
magistrates of other nations ; and yet he is invested with 
immense political power. How comes that about? If 
the sphere of his authority and his means of action are 
the same as those of other judges, whence does he derive 
a power which they do not possess ? The cause of tliis 
difference lies in the simple ikct, that tlie Americans have 
acknowledged the right of the judges to found their decis- 
ions on the Cmistitution rather than on the laws. In other 
words, they have not permitted them to apply such laws as 
may appear to them to be unconstitutional. 

I am aware that a similar right has been sometimes 
claimed — but clahned in vain — by courts of justice in 



•••"^».^.o : .V..'. the rvwinxl th^vn- is. that no powe 

■ - ■ • . "^ t"N :..*rt of it. In Enirlaiid, tli 

■ • v'-^ •• ■-. •■•,:;i:;v:t or nitlier, it do 

^^ - -■ :\«:-.uuont is at once a legisla 

' &gt;v .... . .^^.,,. .*s&gt;^tuKv. JV poUtical theories^of 

• V &gt;.*v*v v^«J^^f *«a «kw rational. An Americai 
A,..w« k. «s« »tt|^&lt;wd to be immutable, as in Fran 

* ^î. ^NMv'vt'tM» .vr Btoidification by the ordinary pa 
^Mv» * W Kn^tUd. It constitutes a detached 
***&gt;k. *» tt iviNramite the wiU of the whole peopi 
W (wiOhv^ « the legislator than on the private 
^» * WK may be altered by the will of the people 
sl^&lt;4v«iun«d cues, according to established rules. In 
W^. »fc* constitution may therefore vary ; but as lor 
*^»l^ II is the origin of all authority, and the sole 
v»l* lb* pivdominating force. 

It is easy to perceive how these differences must « 
«w position and the rights of the judicial bodies in th 
.«.Witnee I have cited. If, in France, the tribunal 
antliorued to disobey the laws on the ground of theii 
«|&gt;po«!d to the constitution, the constituent power wc 
&amp;ct be placed in their hands, since they alone woulc 
the right of interpreting a con.stitution, of which no n 



JUDICIAL POWER IN THE UNITED STATES. 127 

given to the le^lative body, since no legal barrier would 
oppose the alterations which it might prescribe. But it is 
still better to grant the power of changing the constitution 
of the people to men who represent (however imperfectly) 
the will of the people, than to men who represent no one 
but themselves. 

It would be still more imreasonable to invest the English 
judges with the right of resisting the decisions of the legis- 
lative body, since the ParUament which makes the laws 
also makes the constitution ; and consequently, a law ema- 
nating firom the three estates of the realm can in no case 
be unconstitutional. But neither of these remarks is appli- 
cable to America. 

In the United States, the constitution governs the legis- 
lator as much as the private citizen: as it is the first of 
laws, it cannot be modified by a law ; and it is therefore 
just that the tribunals should obey the constitution in pref- 
erence to any law. This condition belongs to the very 
essence of the judicature ; for to select that legal obligation 
by which he is most strictly bound, is in some sort the 
natural right of every magistrate. 

In France, the constitution is also the first of laws, and 
the judges have the same right to take it as the ground of 
their decisions ; but were they to exercise this right, they 
must perforce encroach on rights more sacred than their 
own, namely, on those of society, in whose name they are 
acting. In this case, reasons of state clearly prevail over 
ordinary motives. In America, where the nation can 
always reduce its magistrates to obedience by changing 
its constitution, no danger of this kind is to be feared. 
Upon this point, therefore, the poUtical and the logeai 
reason agree, and the people as well as the judges preserve 
their privileges. 

Whenever a law which the judge holds to be unconsti- 
tntional is invoked in a tribunal of the United States, he 



tM DEMOCRACT IN i 

WKJ refiiae to admit it as a nJe ; this power is the only one 
which is pecaliiir to the American magistrate, hut it give» 
rise to immen-^e iiolilicsJ inBuence, In truth, few laws can 
escape the searching analysis of the judicial power for any 
length of time, for there are few which are not prejudicial 
to some private interest or other, and none which may not 
be brought before a court of justice by tJie choice of par- 
tiea, or by tJio necessity of the case. But as soon as a 
jndge has refiiserl to apply any given law in a case, that 
law immediately loses a portion of its moral force. Those 
to whom it is piojvulicial learn that means exist of overcom- 
ing ita aath&lt;»nty ; and similar aiilts are muliijtlied, until it 
becomes powerlf.w. The alternative, then, is, tliat the 
people must alter the constitution, or the legislature must 
repeal the law. The political power which the AmericuM 
have intrusted to their courts of justice is therefore im- 
mense ; but the evils of this power are considerably dimin- 
ished by the impossibility of attacking the laws except 
through the courts of justice. If the judge had been em- 
powered to contest the law on the ground of theoretical 
generalities, — if he were able to take the initiative, and to 
censure the legislator, — he would play a prominent politi- 
cal part ; and as the champion or the antagonist of a par^, 
he would have hronght the hostile passions of the nati&lt;Hi 
into the conflict. But when a judge contests a law in an 
obscure debate on some particular case, the importance of 
his attack b concealed from public notice ; his decision 
bears upon the interest of an individual, and the law is 
slighted only incidentally. Moreover, although it is cen- 
sured, it is not abolished ; its moral force may be dimin- 
ished, but its authority is not taken away ; and its final 
destruction can be accomplished only by the reit«rat«d 
attacks of judicial functionaries. It will be seen, also, 
that by leaving it to private interest to censure the kw, 
find by intimately uniting the trial of the law with the 



JUDICIAL POWtB IN THE UNITED STATES. 126 

trial of an individual, legislation is protected from wanton 
BBsauIts, and from the daHj i^gressions of party spirit. 
The errors of the legislator are exposed only to meet t 
real want ; and it is always a positive and appreciable feet 
which must serve as the basis of a prosecution. 

I am inclined to believe this practice of the American 
coortfl to be at once most favorable to liberty and to public 
order. If the judge could only attack the legislator openly 
and directly, he would sometimes be afraid to oppose bim ; 
and at other times, party spirit might encourage him to 
brave it at every turn. The laws would consequently be 
attacked when the power from which they emanated was 
weak, and obeyed when it was strong ; — that is to say, 
when it would be useful to respect tliem, they would often 
be contested ; and when it would be easy to convert them 
into an instrument of oppression, they would be respected. 
But the American judge is brought into the political arena 
independently of his own will. He only judges the law 
because he is obliged to judge a case. The political que^ 
tion which he is called upon to resolve is connected with 
the interests of the parties, and he cannot refuse to decide 
it without a denial of justice. He performs his iiinctionB 
Bs a citizen, by fiilfilUng the precise duties which belong to 
his profession as a magistrate. It is true that, upon this 
system, the judicial censorship of the courts of justice 
over the legislature cannot extend to all laws indiscrimi- 
nately, inasmuch as some of them can never give rise to 
tiiat precise species of contest which is termed a lawsuit ; 
and even when such a contest is possible, it may happen 
that no one cares to bring it before a court of justice. 
The Americans have often felt this inconvenience ; but 
they have left the remedy incomplete, lest they should give 
it an efEcacy which might in some cases prove dangerous. 
Within these limits, the power vested in the Americut 
courts of justice, of pronouncing a statute to be unconsti- 



DEUOCBAOT IN AllEfiltlA. 



tadonal, forma one of the most powerful barrien which 
has ever been devised against the tyranny of political W: 
■emHies. 



OTHXB FOWEBa OKAMTED TO AHBBICAN JIIDQB8. 

In the XToited States, all the CitiiEiu ham the ^ht of indictiiig tbs Poblk 
Fnnciionariea before the ordinuy Tnbiuuli. — How ibty tue tbii RI|^ 
— Art. 79 of the FicQch ConititatiDn of the Year VIIL — The Antri- 
caiu and the £Dg[ish cannot andântaiid the Paiport of &gt;**** Article. 

It ia hardlj necessary to saj that, in a free conntrj lik* 
America, all the citizens have the right of indicting pablie 
fimctionaries before the ordinary tribunals, and that all the 
judges have the power of convicting public officers. The 
right granted to tlie courts of justice of punishing the 
agents of the executive government, when they violate the 
laws, is so nalurdl a one, that it cannot be looked upon as 
an extraordinary privilege. Nor do the springs of govern- 
ment appear to me to be weakened in tlie United States, 
by rendering all public officers responsible to the tribunals. 
The Americans seem, on the contrary, to have increased 
by this means that respect which is due to the authorities, 
and at the same time, to have made these authorities more 
careful not to offend. I was struck by the small number 
of political trials which occur in the United States ; but I 
had no difficulty in accounting for this circumstance. A 
prosecution, of whatever nature it may be, is always a 
difficult and expensive undertaking. It is easy to attack 
a public man in the journals, but tlie motives for bringing 
him before the tribunals must be serious. A solid ground 
of complaint must exist, before any one thinks of prosecut- 
ing a public officer, and these officers are careful not to 
furnish such grounds of complaint, when they are afraid of 
being prosecuted. 



JUDICIAL POWES IN TER DSITED STATES. 181 

This does not depend npon the republican form of Amer- 
ican institutions, for the same thing happens in England. 
These two nations do not regard the impeachment of the 
principal officers of state as the guaranty of their indepen- 
dence. But they hold that it is rather by minor prosecu- 
tions, which the humblest citizen can institute at any time, 
that liberty is protected, and not by those great judicial 
procedures, which are rarely employed until it is too late. 

In the Middle Ages, when it was very difficult to reach 
offenders, the Judges inflicted fiightful punishments on the 
fijw who were arrested ; but this did not diminish the num- 
ber of crimes. It has since been discovered that, when 
justice is more certain and more mild, it is more efEca- 
cious, Tlie English and the Americans hold that tyranny 
and oppression are to be treated like any other crime, by 
lessening the penalty and facilitating conviction. 

In the year VIII. of die French Republic, a constitution 
was drawn up in wMch the following clause was intro- 
dticed : " Art. 75. All the agents of the govermnent below 
the rank of ministers can be prosecuted for offences relating 
to their several functions only by virtue of a decree of the 
Council of State ; in which case, the prosecution takes 
place before the ordinary tribunals." This clause survived 
the " Constitution of the year VIII.," and is still maint^ed, 
m spite of the just complaints of the nation. I have always 
foQod a difficulty in explaining its meaning to Englishmen 
or Americans, and have hardly understood it myself. They 
at once perceived that, the Council of State in France 
being a great tribunal established in the centre of the king- 
dom, it was a sort of tyranny to send all complainants 
before it as a preliminary step. Bnt when I told them 
tltat the Council of State was not a judicial body, in the 
common sense of the term, but an administrative council 
composed of men dependent on the Crown, — so that the 
king, after having ordered one of his servants, called % 



18S 



BtUOOUCT » AMBBIO*. 



Prefiwt, to commit an injuslic*, has the power of com- 
muKling anollii^r of liîs sen-ants, called a Couocillor of 
State, to provwit tlw fonner from being punished, — when 
I sliowed them, tliat the citizen who has been injured by aa 
order of tlio sovereign is obUgeii to ask the sovereign's per- 
miiuittti to obtain redress, they refused to credit so flagrant 
an abnstf, and weru tempted to accuse me of falsehood or 
ignoratice. It fKxiuently happened, before the Revolntion, 
tliat a I'arliiunvnt * issued a warrant against a public officer 
who had committed an oSence. Sometimes the royal aa* 
tlioiity inlervenod, and quashed the proceedings. Despoil 
iim then showed itself openly, and men obeyed it only by 
flubinittiiig to superior force. It is painfid to perceiv&amp;how 
nnich lower we are sunk than our forefathers ; smce we 
allow things to pass, under tlie color of justice and the sana- 
tion of law, which Tiolence alone imposed upon them. 



I 



^ A Aeacli " Piriûmont " 



ft Jodidil bod;.— Am. Bd. 



POLITICAL JURISDICTION IN THE UNITED STATES. tS$ 



CHAPTER VII. 

POLITICAL JUBISDICnON IN THE UNITED STATES. 

Definition of Political Jorisdiction. — What is nndentood hy Political Jmi»- 
diction in France, in England, and in the United States. — In America» 
the Political Judge has to do only with Public Officers. — He more fre- 
quently decrees Remoyal from Office than an ordinary Penalty. — Polit- 
ical Jurisdiction as it exists in the United States is, notwithstanding its 
Mildness, and perhaps in Consequence of that Mildness, a most Power- 
ful Instrument in the Hands of the Majority. 

I UNDERSTAND by political jurisdiction, that tem- 
porary right of pronouncing a legal decision with 
which a political body may be invested. 

In absolute governments, it is useless to introduce any 
extraordinary forms of procedure; the pirince, in whose 
name an offender is prosecuted, is as much the sovereign 
of the courts of justice as of everything else, and the idea 
which is entertained of his power is of itself a sufficient 
security. The only thing he has to fear is, that the ex- 
ternal formalities of justice should be neglected, and that 
his authority should be dishonored, from a wish to 
strengthen it. But in most free countries, in which the 
majority can never have the same influence over the tri- 
bunals as an absolute monarch, the judicial power has 
occasionally been vested for a time in the representatives 
of the people. It has been thought better to introduce a 
temporary confiision between the functions of the different 
authorities, than to violate the necessary principle of the 
unity of government. 

England, France, and the United States have established 



tliev do not habitually try all political offences, tli 
[■oinpctent to try thorn all. Another political body 1 
ri^'ht of bringing the accusation before tlie Peers: tl 
dirterence which exists between the two countries 
pespect ia, that in England the Commons may in 
whomsoever they please before the Lords, wlii 
France, the Deputies can only employ this mode oi 
edition against tlie ministers of the Crown. Ir 
coimtiies, tlie Upper House may make use of all t 
isting penal laws of tlie nation to punish the detinque 

In the United States, as well as in Europe, one 1 
of the legislature is authorized to impeach, and the ol 
judge : the House of Représentatives arraigns the oft 
and the Senate punishes him. But the Senate cai 
try such persons as are brought before it by the Hw 
Representatives, and tliose persons must lielong t 
class of public fiinetionaries. Thus the jurisdiction 
Senate is less extensive than that of the Peers of F 
whilst the right of impeachment by the Représentât; 
more general than that of the Deputies. But the 
difference which exists between Europe and Ameri 
tiiat, in Europe, the political tribunals can apply a 

ttctments of the penal code, whilst in America, 



FOuncAL JumsDionoN in the .mnrED states. 18S 

grades him from office ; he must then he tried by a juiy, 
which alone can deprive him of Kherty or life. This afr 
curately illustrates the suhject we are treating. The poliU 
ical jurisdiction which is established by the laws of Europe 
is intended to reach great ofiendera, whatever may be their 
birth, their rank, or their power in the State ; and to this 
end, all the privileges of a court of justice are temporarily 
given to a great political assembly. The legislator is then 
transformed into a magistrate ; he ia called upon to prove, 
to classify, and to punish tbe offence ; and as he exercises 
all the authority of a judge, the law imposes upon him all 
the duties of that Iiigb office, and re^^uirea all tbe formal- 
ities of justice, Wlien a public fiinctionaiy is impeached 
before an English or a French political tribunal, and is 
found guilty, the sentence deprives him ipso facto of his 
flmctions, and may pronounce him incapable of resuming 
them or any others for the fiiture. But in this case, the 
political interdict is a consequence of the sentence, and not 
the sentence itself. In Europe, then, the sentence of a 
political tribunal is a judicial verdict, rather than an ad- 
ministrative measure. In the United States, the contrary 
takes place ; and although the decision of the Senate is 
judicial in its form, since the Senators are obliged to com- 
ply with tbe rules and formalities of a court of justice ; 
although it is judicial, also, in respect to the motives on 
which it is founded, since the Senate is generally obliged 
to take an offence at common law as the basis of its sen- 
tence ; yet the political judgment is rather an administra: 
tive than a judicial act. If it had been tbe intention of 
the American legislator really to invest a political body 
with great judicial authority, its action would not have 
been limited to public fimctionaries, since the most danger^ 
ous enemies of the state may not have any public functions ; 
and this ia especially true in republics, where party influ- 
ence has the most force, and where the strengtli of many 
ft leader is increased by his exercising no le^timate ^&lt;M«t. 



^S» •BIOCRACT m AMEBICA. 

T, *V Vutarrictta W^nsUtor had wished to give eociety 
•#(»*) -tv luuiuu w»" previMiting great offences by the fear of 

StH^utuiuiiL. «.^.-ording to the practice of ordinaiy justice, 
I iJi..' i\&gt;»iui&gt;» of the penal code would have been given 
V» i-lio iKtUtk-iil tribunals. But lie gave them only an 
*Hh.i»txt, w^^poD, wbich can never reach the most dan- 
l^iviiA oll'«itdors ; ^ce men who aim at the entire snl^ 
*Jt*ion «t' th© laws are not likely to murmur at a political 

1 ue mam object of the political jurisdiction which ob- 
**i»» in the United States is, tlierefore, to take away the 
Pwwvr from bim who would make a bad use of it, and pre- 
sent him from ever acquiring it again. This is e^-idenlJy 
•» rtd.iHinstrativ.j mranire, sanctioned by i!r' tonnalities 
0« 8 judicial decision. In this matter, the Americana hava 
^'^•tod a mixed system ; they have surrounded the act 
which removes a public fimctlonary with all the securities 
« a political trial, and they have deprived political con- 
«eninations of their severest penalties. Every link of the 
•ystem may easily be traced from this point ; we at once 
perceive why the American constitutions subject all the 
civil fonctionaries to the jurisdiction of the Senate, wliilst 
the military, whose crimes are nevertheless more formi- 
a*ble, are exempted from that tribunal. In the civil ser- 
vice, none of the American funcdonariea can be said to bo 
removable ; the places which some of them occupy are 
inalienable, and the others are chosen for a term wbich 
cannot be shortened.* It is, therefore, necessary to try 
them all in order to deprive them of their authority. But 
military officers are dependent on the chief magistrate of 

* Thii it » gntX miatake. In no eoantrj in the world do riril ofGcen 

hold tbcdr poati bj so short and uncertuD a tennre as in tho Vnilcd Stales. 

XU» i» tnu both of the FedenJ and tho Slate goveraments, rotation in office 

itàna now held op (BUkI; aod ituoriotul;, aa we bclieve) to be a republican 

Je. Every change of adminiatraljoo, every election of a new Gotot 

— Preaideat, lead* to the appoinlmeot of a new «et of officerv 



POLITICAL JUBISDICTION IN THE UNITED STATES. 137 

the State, who is himself a civil fimctionary ; and the de- 
cision which condemns him is a blow upon them all. 

If we now compare the American and the European 
systems, we shall meet with differences no less striking in 
the effects which each of them produces or may produce. 
In France and England, the jurisdiction of political bodies 
is looked upon as an extraordinary resource, which is only 
to be employed in order to rescue society from unwonted 
dangers. It is not to be denied that these tribunab, as they 
are constituted in Europe, violate the conservative principle 
of the division of powers in the state, and threaten inces- 
santly the lives and liberties of the subject. The same 
political jurisdiction in the United States is only indirectly 
hostile to the division of powers ; it cannot menace the 
lives of the citizens, and it does not hover, as in Europe, 
over the heads of the whole community, since it reaches 
those only who have voluntarily submitted to its authority 
by accepting office. It is, at the same time, less formidable 
and less efficacious ; indeed, it has not been considered by 
the legislators of the United States as an extreme remedy 
for the more violent evils of society, but as an ordinary 
means of government. In this respect, it "probably exercises 
more real influence on the social body in America than in 
Europe. We must not be misled by the apparent mildness 
of American legislation in all that relates to political juris- 
diction. It is to be observed, in the first place, that in the 
United States, the tribunal which passes judgment is com- 
posed of the same elements, and subject to the same in- 
fluences, as the body which impeaches the offender, and 
that this gives an almost irresistible impulse to the vin- 

down eren to the lowest clerks in the several departments. The country 
thos loses all the benefit of experience in the conduct of its affairs, the of- 
fices being all held at any one time by a set of raw hands. The only ex- 
ception is in the case of the Judges of the Supreme Court, who are now 
the only functionaries that cannot be remoyed except by impeachment — 
Ed. 



188 DEUOCRACT IN AUEBICA. 

dictive passions of parties. If political judges in the United 
States cannot infiict so heavy penalties as those in Ear(^)e, 
there is the less chance of their acquitting an offender ; the 
conviction, if it is less formidable, is more certain. The 
principal object of tbe political tribunals of Europe is to 
punish the offender ; of those in America, to deprive him 
of his power. A political sentence in the United Statei 
may, therefore, he looked npon as a preventive meaanre ; 
and there is no reason for tying down the judges to tbe 
exact definitions of criminal latr. Nothing can be mora 
alarming than the vagueness with which political oSences* 
properly so called, are described in the laws of America. 
Article II. Section 4 of the Constitution of the United 
States runs thus : — " The President, Vice-President, and 
all civil ofBcers of the United States, shall be removed from 
office on impeachment for, and conviction of, treason, brib- 
ery, or other high crimes and misdemeanors." Many of the 
constitutions of the States are even less explicit. " Public 
officers," says the Constitution of Maasachusetta, " shall bo 
impeached for misconduct or maladministration." The 
Constitution of Virginia declares that *' all the ci\'U ofBcers 
who shall have offended against tlie State by maladminis- 
tration, corruption, or other high crimes, may be impeached 
by the House of Delegates." In some of the States, the 
constitutions do not specify any offences, in order to sul&gt; 
ject the public functionaries to an unlimited responsibility.* 
I venture to affirm, that it is precisely their mildness which 
renders the American laws so formidable in this respect. 
We have shown that, in Europe, the removal of a function- 
ary and his political disqualification are tlie consequences of 
the penalty he is to undergo, and that. In America, they 
constitute the penalty itself. The consequence is, tlmt in 
Europe, political tribunals are invested with terrible powers 
which they arc afraid to use, and tlie fear of punishing too 

* S«e the ConsdtutioDi of Illinois, Maine, Connecticat, Kod Gwq^ 



POLmCAL JUMSDIcnON IN THE DMITED STATES. 189 

mnch binders tliero from punishing at all. But in Amer- 
ica, no one hesitates to inflict a penalty from which human- 
ity does not recoil. To condemn a political opponent to 
death, in order to deprive liiro of his power, is to commit 
what all the world would execrate as a horrible assassina- 
tion; but to declare that opponent unworthy to exercise 
that authority, and to deprive him of it, leaving him un- 
injured in life and limb, may seem to.be the fair issue of 
the struggle. But this sentence, which it is so easy to 
pronounce, is not the less fatally severe to most of those 
npon whom it is inflicted. Great criminals may undoubt- 
edly brave ita vain rigor ; but ordinary oâènders will dread 
it as a condemnation which destroys their position in the 
world, casts a blight upon their honor, and condemns them 
to a shameful inactivity worse than death. The influence 
exercised in the United States upon the progress of society 
by the jurisdiction of political bodies is the more powerful 
in proportion as it seems less frightful. It does not directly 
coerce the subject, but it renders the majority more abso- 
lute over those in power ; it does not give an unbounded 
authority to the legislature which can only be exerted at 
some great crisis, but it establishes a temperate and regular 
infhience, which b at all times available. If the power is 
decreased, it can, on the other hand, be more convenientty 
employed, and more easily abused. By preventing political 
tribunals from inflicting judicial punishments, the Americans 
seem to have eluded the worst consequences of legislative 
tyranny, rather than tyranny itself; and I am not sure 
that political jurisdiction, as it is constituted in the United 
States, is not, all things considered, the most formidable 
weapon which has ever been placed in the grasp of a ma- 
jority. When tfie American republics begin to degenerate, 
it will be easy to verify the truth of this observation, by 
remarking whether the nnmber of political impeachments 
is increased.* 



""ArijiiK VIII. 

THE FEDEEAL COXSTITOTIOX 

J «AVE hitherto comideml each Stata m 
JL whnlc, and have e.xpldnrf the different ,» 
th« poop e there put in „«;„„, „„a ^^ j^j.J, 

""•'" "'"'■'' " ^Pl»)^- But dl the State, w 
ton.,dered aa independent a,, j-et forced to ,ub 
tam cue», to the «npreme authority of the Ui 
urao ]. now come to examine the portion of, 
■"lueli has been granted lo the Union, and to &lt; 
etoce over the Federal Constitution. 

HisroK op rm pedbiial consTrrano 
«Wgla «r ths Ita. Umoa. _ In Wak.^. _ a.^^^ „^, 
«.m i»ihorio,._L,ttTOl of no Ym, hit,™. ,hù a 
FroraolgadoD of (he new Conslilnlion. 

Thi thirteen Colonies, which simultaneously 
the yoke of England towards the end of the lai 
iMcI, «s I have already said, the sune religion, 
■""■age, the same cnstoms, and almost the « 



THE FEDEEAL CONSTnnTION. 141 

vidoal importance of each m the general importance of alL 
Hence arose two opposite tendencies, — the one prompting 
the Anglo-Americana to unite, the other to divide, their 
strength. 

As long as the war with the mother country lasted, the 
principle of union was kept aUve by necessity ; and al- 
though the laws which constituted it were defective, the 
common tie subsisted in spite of thdr imperfections.* Bat 
no sooner was peace concluded, than the &amp;ults of this legis- 
lation became manifest, and the state seemed to be siuU 
deniy dissolved. Each Colony became an independent r^ 
pnbhc, and assumed an absolute sovereign^. The Federal 
government, condemned to impotence by its Constitution, 
and no longer sustained by the presence of a common dan- 
ger, witnessed the outrages offered to it» flag by the great 
nations of Europe, whilst it was scarcely able to maint^n 
its ground against the Indian tribes, and to pay the interest 
of the debt which had been contracted during the war of 
independence. It was already on the verge of destruction-, 
when it ofHcially proclaimed its inability to conduct the 
government, and appealed to the constituent authority. f 

If America ever approached (for however brief a time) 
that lofVy pinnacle of glory to which the proud ima^nation 
of its inhabitants is wont to point, it was at thb solemn 
moment, when the national power abdicated, as it were, its 
authority. All ages have furnished the spectacle of a peo- 
ple struggling with energy to win its independence ; and 
the efforts of the Americans in throwing off the English 
yoke have been considerably exaggerated. Separated &amp;om 

• See the Articles of the firat Confederation, formed in 1778. Thia Co»- 
ititatioti wu not ndopted by «11 the Slatea nntil 1T8I. See also the biuIt^ 
(ia given of this Conatitation in the FedcraJist, ftvm No. IS to No. 2! ind» 
give, and Stoiy'a '' Commentariea on the Coiutitniion of the United Biatei," 
pp. BS-IIS. 

t CongHM mads this dedarKion on tbe Slit of Febnui/, 1787. 



W8 DEaocBAcr ra amemoa. ^^^^^" 

wwr eoemies by three thousand miles of ocean, and backed 
by a poweiftil. ally, the United States owed their victory 
much mora to their geographical position than to the valor 
of their anniea or the patriotism of tlieir citizens. It would 
be ridiculous to compare the American war to the wars of 
the French Révolution, or tlie cffisti of tfaa AnMXicau to 
tliose of the French, when Frmce, attadcad bjr dw wliole 
(^ Europe, without nuney, vithout credit, vîâitmt alUtf, 
threw forward a twentieth put of ber population to meet 
her enemies, and with one bond earned the torch of rero- 
Intion beyond the frtrntien, wUkt ahe stifled -mÛi the oAv 
a Same that was devoaring the coanti7 within. But it it 
new in the history of sod^, to ne a gnat pec^ toOL» 
calm and scmtinimng eye upon itself, when ^)prised by 1^ 
legislature that the wheels of its government are stopped,- 
•^ to see it carefully examine the extent of the evil, and 
patiently wait two whole years until a remedy is discov- 
t^eà, to which it voluntarily submitted without its costing 
a tear or a drop of blood from mankind. 

When the inadequacy of the first constitution was dis- 
covered, America Iwd the double advantage of that calm 
which bad succeeded the effervescence of the RevolntioD, 
and of the tud of diose great men whom the Revoludon 
had created. The assembly which accepted the task of 
composing the second constitution was small ; * but George 
Washington was its President, and it cont^ned the finest 
minds and the noblest characters which had ever appeared 
in the New World. This national Convention, after long 
and mature deliberation, offered to the acceptance of the 
people the body of general laws which still rules the Union. 
All the States adopted it successively.'!- The new Federal 

* It coniUted of Qftj-flre membtre; Waibington, Maditoa, HtunilKm, 
and the two Mornjes irere oiiuingat the number. 

t It WM not adopted by the legisIntÏTe bodies, but reprewntadTea wen 
llKtad bj the people for this lole porpoie ; «nd the new Cooititntioii wh 
CKBMod U leuKth in tteh of ituM UMmblie*. 



THE FEDEBAL COKSTITUTIOH. 148 

gorenunent commenced its functions in 1789, after an 
interregnum of two years. The RevolaUoa of America 
terminated precisely when that of France b^an. 



SUHMABT OF THE FEDESAL CONffTinniOK. 

DivùioD of Authority betweea the Fsdersl Goremmeiit uid the SUtM. — 
The GoTerùment of tho StaUa iï the Bule, the Fedenl GoTenuneiit 
d» Exception. 

The first question which awaited the Americans was, so 
to divide the sovereignty that each of the différent States 
which composed the Union should continue to goTem 
itself in all that concerned its internal prosperity, whilst 
the entire nation, represented by the Union, should con- 
tinue to form a. compact body, and to provide for all gen- 
eral engencies. The problem was a complex and difficult 
one. It was as impossible to determine beforehand, with 
any degree of accuracy, the share of authority which each 
of the two governments was to enjoy, as to foresee all the 
incidents in the life of a nation. 

The obligations and the cl^ms of the Federal govern- 
ment were simple and easily definable, because tlie Union 
had been formed with the express purpose of meeting cer- 
tain great general wants ; but the clmms and obligations of 
the individual States, on the other hand, were complicated 
and various, because their government had penetrated into 
all the details of social Hfe. The attributes of the Federal 
government were therefore carrfully defiued, and all that 
was not included among them was declared to remain to 
the governments of the several States, Thus the gov- 
ernment of the States remaned the rule, and that of the 
Confederation was the exception.* 

* It U to be observed, that, «henerer the eztiusive right of regatating cer- 
tdn mattera ii not reBcired to CongnM by the Cooidtutioii, the StaM nwf 



144 nOfOCBACT n AHmCA. 

But as il vra.1 foreseen thai, in practice, quvslions 
crÙK&gt; M to iko exact timiis of this excepdiinul nutbority, 
auil it would bo ilangWDDs to snbcnit thwe «taesliims lo th« 
(iM-i-iiun of tho onlliuuy cootla of justice, eaulili^lRHl in the 
diK^mnt Stxtiis by the StatM tbctOMlv-cs, a hig'li Federal 
court «u civated,* ot»e of vbow dnties was to nuuntiuii 
the balance of power betwvea the two rival governmeDtB. 
■s it had been ninHJihnii Igr aie Coutttutton.f 






Fowzaa or VB nPNUt. i 



», «id IsTYini; Geitrnil Tmea 
~Wtm Van of ilic Inu^ranl I'olicj of ths 
7 k *Ki •Uthi. — TV Guri'ninitiil of Ûia Union in sumo Re- 
ipMkaMtaHMkNi Ai&gt; tta Eiiig'* GoTenuneat in tha old Fttadi 

Tnspaopit* in thianwht-» are only individuals ; and the 
^wtsl TWEEOti why thtTT nc«d to be united under one gov- 
•■■■Ml ik that they uutv appear to advantage before for- 
«ipBBB,. Iha •xduu^'c right of making peace and war, of 

.\&gt;iu.i««i tea fit to tike np the aflur. For 

.1 o( making a geneist law on bankrapKj, 

^a &gt;^-i&gt; 1» &lt;K&lt; Each Sute ii then at liberty to make 

I'hii )u&gt;iT)t, luxreroT, hai been eitablialicd oui; aftra 

s nMHM. aii'1 iiin; be laid to belong more pioperij to 

.n/ Ifcta niiii-1 «■ liiillnct, as we shall hcresfter show. 

I th« Kiiliu^liit, So. 45, explains this diviùon of sonr- 

I'uii'ii aixl ill'! States ; " The power» det^atod bj the 

inMlrnl 1,1 ivcrn went ate few and defined. Tbote vUi^ 

inmeroni and IndeGnite. IV 

external objects, as war, peace, aego- 

power» reserved to the several StaM 

1^1 Am iil&gt;,ii''-(i wlilrh. In the Ordinary coiuw of aflâîrs, coneetn 

■Bit iinwj-ority of lite Stale." 

qtiote the Federalist in this worïc Whm 



1 




THE FEDEBAL COHSTITUTIOIf. 145 

concluding treaties of commerce, raising armies, and equip- 
ping fleets, was therefore granted to the Union. The no- 
cessity of a national government was less imperiously felt 
in the conduct of the internal atlairs of society ; hut there 
are certain general interests which can only be attended to 
with advantage by a general authority. The Union was 
invested with the power of controlling the monetary sys- 
tem, carrying the mails, and opening the great roads which 
were to unite the different parts of the country.* The 
independence of the government of each State in its 
sphere was recognized ; yet the Federal government was 
authorized to interfere in the internal affairs of the States f 
in a few predetermined cases, in which an indiscreet use of 
their independence might compromise the safety of the 
whole Union. Thus, whilst the power of modifying and 
changing their legislation at pleasure was preserved to each 
of the confederate republics, tliey are forbidden to enact 
tx-poat-fado laws, or to grant any titles of nobility. 
Losdy, as it was necessary that the Federal government 
should be able to fulfil its engagements, it has an unlim- 
ited power of levying taxes. 

In examining the division of powers, as established by 

the bill, which haa siacs become the CooatitntloD of the United State*, wm 
bcAire the people, and the discaesiona were (till pending, tlirco men, who had 
àbtBàj acquired a portion (^ that celebrity which (hej have since enj07«d, 
— John Jaf , Hamilton, MadisOD, — oudertook togethEt to explain to tho na- 
tion the odrantaf^ of ttie meaanre which vas propoaed. With this view, 
the; published in a journal a wries of aniclea, which now form a complete 
treatise. Thej entitled their joomal " The Federalist," a name which h«« 
been retained in tho work. The Fedenlist is an excellent book, which ought 
W be familiar to tho etateamen of all countiie*, though it ipociallf coneemi 
America. 

• Savcrsl other powers of the soiae kind exist, such ai that of legtslaling 
on bankruptcy, and j^nting patenta. The neceasit; of confiding such mat- 
ten to the Fedcrul government is obvious enotigh- 

t Even in these casei, its intcrfbnmee is indirect. The Dnion ioMiftcM 
bj lacaiu of the tribnnals, as will b« bereaftir shown. 



146 I»CMOOBAoy IN AXEfttCA. 

the Federal Constitution, remarking on the one linnH the 
portion of sovereignty wliich bag been reserved to tlie hov- 
eral States, and on the other, tbe share of power which has 
been ^ven to tbe Union, it is evident that the Fedora] 
legislators entertained very clear and accurate notions re- 
specting the centralization of government. The United 
States form not only a republic, but a confederation ; yet 
the national authority is more centrali7/KÎ there than it 
was in several of the absolute monarchies of Europe. I 
will cite only two examples. 

Thirteen supreme courts of justice existed in France, 
wldch, generally speaking, had the right of Interpreting 
the law witliout appeal ; and those provinces which were 
B^led pay» iTjEtat were authorized to refuse thrâr assent 
to an mipost which had been levied by the sovereign, who 
represented the nation. 

In tbe Union, there is bnt one tribunal to interpret, as 
there is one legislature to make, the laws ; and an impost 
voted by the representatives of the nation is binding upon 
all the citizens. In these two essential points, therefore, 
the Union is more centralized than the French monarchy, 
although the Union is only an assemblage of confederate 
republics. 

In Spmn, certain provinces had the right of establishing 
a system of custom-house duties pecuLar to themselves, 
tdthongh that privil^;e belongs, by its very nature, to the 
national sovereignty. In America, Congress alone has the 
right of regulating the commercial relations of the States 
with each other. The government of the confederation is 
therefore more centralized in this respect than the kingdom 
of Spain. It is true, that the power of the crown in 
France or Spain was always able to obtain by force what- 
ever the constitution of the country denied, and that the 
ultimate result was consequently the same ; but I am here 
discussing the theory of the constitution. 



THE FEDEBAl COHSTllUnOH. !M7 

After luTmg settled the limits within which the Fed- 
eral gOTemment was to act, the next point was to detes&lt;- 
mine how it should be pnt in action. 

LEGISLATIVE POWERS OP THE PEDEKAL GOTBBSMEHT. 

DiTis[on of die LegiaUtÎTe Body into Two Branches. — Diflbrence in Iha 
Mtumer of forming the Two Honwi. — Thi Principle of the lodepo- 
dence of ihe States predonunatee In tlie Formation of the Senate. — 
That ot tbe SoTereigaty of the Nation in the Composition of the Honir 
of BepresenlatiTCB. — Singular Effect of the Fact that a Constltailon 
can be Logical onlf when the Nation ia Young. 

The plait which had been laid down beforehand in the 
constitutions of the several States was followed, in manj 
respects, in the organization of the powers of the Union. 
The Federal legislature of the Union was composed of a 
Senate and a House of Representatives. A spirit of com- 
promise caused these two assemblies to be constituted on 
different principles. I have already shown that two inters 
ests were opposed to each other in the establishment of 
die Federal Constitution. These two interests had given 
rise to two opinions. It was the wish of one party to 
convert the Union into a league of independent States, 
or a sort of congress, at which the representatives of the 
several nations would meet to discuss certain points of 
common interest. The other party desired to unite the io- 
habitants of the American Colonies into one and the same 
people, and to establish a government, which should act as 
the sole representative of the nation, although in a limited 
sphere. The practical consequences of these two theories 
were very different. 

If the object was, that a league should bo establi 
instead of a national government, then the majority 
the States, instead of the majority of the inhabitants 
the Union, would make the laws : for every Statv, 



rfl 

"M 



248 DEHOOiAOT nr lunoi. 

OF smsll, would then Eflmain in foil indcpeadaiM, uid 
enter the UnioB upon a fbotmg of periect eqiulitf . 1^ 
however, the inhabitants of the United Statec won to bs 
considered as belonging to one and the same nation, it 
would be natural tliat &amp;e m^ori^ of tibe dtizeiu of the 
Union should make the law. Of coarse, the lener Statea 
could not subscribe to the aj^cation of this doctrina with- 
out, in Ëict, abdicating their tnimt^mt^ in respect to the 
sovereignty of the Cmi&amp;dentimi ; once the^ wmld cease 
to be a co-cqnal and co^uitftoritatÎTe power, and become an 
insignificant fraction of a great people. Hie îonoee sys- 
tem would have invested them with excessive aalhori^, 
the latt«r would have destroyed their influence altogether. 
Under these circumstances, the result was, that the rules 
of lo^c were broken, as is usually the case when interests 
are opposed to arguments. A middle course was hit upon 
by the legislators, which brought together by force two 
systems theoredcally irreconcilable. 

The principle of the independence of the States tri- 
omphed in the formation of the Senate, and that of the 
sovereign^ of the nation in the composition of the House 
o( Representatives. Elach State was to send two Senators 
to Congress, and a number of Representatives proportioned 
to its population.* It results irom this arrangement that 

* Btctj tea jeazt, Congnn fixes aatw the nambcr of RcprcscnlMim 
which each Slals i* to fucnUli, The total onmbei wu 69 in ITS9, and S40 
n )S33. 

The ConitJIation decided that there shodd not be more than one Hcpro- 
•entative Tor every 30,000 penoni ; bnt no minimum wm Bzed on. Con* 
gwii liaa not thought fit to augment the nnmber of Bepreicntalircs in pro- 
portion to the iocreiue of population. The first Act which «n» passed on 
■he aulijeci {14th of April, 1793) decided that there shonld be one Ropr«&gt;ent- 
■tJTe for every 03,000 inhabiunls. The Act which was passed in )S5S fixe* 
the proportion at one for 93,4S3, and made the House consist of !34 mem- 
ben. The popnlation represented is composed of all the freeman, and of 
Am Sitli* of ilw ilavee. 



THE ÏEDKEAL OOMSTmJTIOK. 14t 

the State of New York has at the present day Uiir^-thioe 
Representatives, and only two Senators ; the Slate of Del- 
aware haa two Senators, and only one R^nresentative ; the 
State of Delaware is therefore equal to the State of New 
York in the Senate, whilst the latter bas thirty-three time» 
the influence of the former in the House of Representi^ 
tives. Thus, the minority of the nation in the Senate 
may paralyze the decisions of the majority represented in 
the other House, which is contrary to the spirit of consti- 
tutional government. 

These &amp;cts show how rare and difficult it is rationally 
and logically to combine all the several parts of le^slation. 
The course of time always gives birth to different interests, 
and sanctions different principles, among the same people ; 
and, when a general constitution is to be established, these 
interests and principles are so many natural obstacles to 
the rigorous application of any political system with all iti 
consequences. The early stages of national existence are 
the only periods at which it is possible to make legislation 
irictly logical ; and when we perceive a nation in :he en- 
joyment of this advantage, we should not hastily c-jiclude 
that it is wise, but only remember that it is young. "When 
the Federal Constitution was formed, the interest of ind&amp;- 
pendence for the separate States, and the interest of union 
for the whole people, were the only two conflicting inter- 
ests which existed amongst tlie Anglo-Americans ; and a 
compromise was necessarily made between them. 

It is, however, just to acknowledge, that this part of the 
Constitution has not hitherto produced those evils which 
might bave been feared. All the States are young and 
contiguous ; their customs, their ideas, and their wants aie 
not dissimilar ; and the diflerences which result from thdr 
size are not enough to set their interests much at variance. 
The small States have consequently never leagued them- 
wlvea together in the Senate to oppose tbe designs of the 



MO 

iaiget ones. Beaides,'tfaen Si M î 
iâ the legal expreasioD of die «ilL k£ m feofb^ ^Êà lÊê 
Senate could offer bat a £»ble (qppodtkn ta dks -rata at &amp;• 
majori^ expressed by the HooM of PyMuntadw i. 

It must not be fi*gottan, noareonr, ^mt it wu not ia 
the power of the Americas îugîrrJitirm to redoce to a aiiif^ 
nation the pec^e for irixA i3a^ wen nakicg law». "Bim 
object of the Federal Coortitiâko ma not to dwtrqjr ^bt 
mdependence of the Slatea, bot to reatram it. Bj acknowl- 
edging the real power tifawse wcoiKlai7 conmumitiea, (and 
it was impossible to d^triro' them of it,) they disavowed 
beforehand the habitual nae of emiftniiit in enfoTcing Ab 
decisions of- the majority. This being laid down, the intro- 
duction of the influence of the States into the mechanism 
of tlie Federal government was by no means to be won- 
dered at ; since it only attested the existence of an acknowl- 
edged power, which was to be humored, and not forcibly 
checked. 



Ttw Senate named bj the Stale LegislaCnrei ; the Représentatives bj the 
People. — Doable Election ol the fbnner ; aiogle Election of the latter. 
— Term' of the diffiuent Offices. — Pecnliar FnnctioDB of each Boom. 

The Senate difiers from the other House, not only in the 
rery principle of representation, but also in the mode of its ' 
dection, in the tenn for which it is chosen, and in the 
Bbture of its functions. The House of Representatives 
■a chosen by the people, the Senate by the legislatures of 
each State ; the former is directly elected, the latter is 
dected by an elected body ; the term for which the Rep- 
résentatives are chosen is only two years, that of the Sena- 
ton IB mx. The functions of the House of Representativea 
,^m paxely legislative, and the only share it takes in the 



THE FEDEBAL CONSTITUTIOH. 161 

jadicial power is in the impeachment of public officers. 
The Senate co-operates in the work of legislation, and tries 
those political offences which the Hoose of Representatives 
submits to itâ decision. It also acts as the great executive 
council of the nation ; the treaties which are concluded by 
the President must be ratified by the Senate ; and the 
t^pointments he may make, in order to be définitive, mu»t 
be approved by the same body. 



THE EXECUrrVB POWER. 

Dependence of the FreiideDt. — He b Electire «nd Responsible. — Free m 
hii own Sphere, under the Inspection, bat not under the Direction, of 
the Senate. — His Ssluy fixed at his Entrj into Office. — Sospennve 
Veto, 

The American legislators undertook a diificult task m 
attempting to create an executive power dependent on the 
majority of the people, and nevertheless sufficiently strong 
to act without restraint in its own sphere. It was indis- 
pensable to the maintenance of the republican form of 
government, that the representative of the executive power 
should bo subject to the will of the nation. 

The President is an elective magistrate. His honor, his 
property, his hherty, and his life are the securities which 
the people liave for the temperate use of his power. But in 
the exercise of his authority, he is not perfectly indepen- 
dent; the Senate takes cognizance of his relations with 
foreign powers, and of his distribution of public appoints 
ments, so that he can neither corrupt nor be corrupted. 
The legislators of the Union acknowledge tliat the exeo- 
. ntive power could not fidfil its task with dignity and 
advantage, unless it enjoyed more stability and Btreiigth 
than had been granted it in the separate States. 

The President is chosen for four years, and he may be 
re-elected ; so that the chances of a future admimstralim 



Iiy2 DEMOCUCT a A1ŒBICA. 

mar inspiiv liîin witL hopeful undertakings fi» the [pdUic 
pMil. MiA jiivo him the means of canning them into execn 
thw. Thi&gt; I'lviiiient was made the sole representaUve of the 
«xtVHtiio ;viwi.&lt;r of tlie Union ; and care was taken not to 
w««lor hi* lUvisioiis subordinate to the vote of a cotmril, — ' 
a tl:)i)^^&gt;ii« nii'usurc, which tends at the same time to clog 
tho .■!• ti'^n iff tht&gt; guvemment and to diminish its responsi- 
bi! :t . Mil' Sciialu has the right of annulling ccrtun acts 
ot i^&gt;' Ti^'^iil'^'iit ; but it cannot compel him to take any 
uTt-t^o. )ior iK&gt;i'» it j)articipBte in the exercise of tlie executive 

l1«o th'lîon of the legislamre on the execadve power 
ntrtt 1h' llil^'(•(, nnd we have just shown that the Ameri- 
,N(i&gt;' ^■nl^•^lllly iihvîjited this influence; but it may, on the 
ntli.'i' liiuiil, W indirect. Legislative assemblies which 
lw*\&gt; ihi- I'liwiT of depriving an officer of state of hia sal- 
Mi'\ I'lii-i-tiai'h ii|)on his independence ; and as (hey arc free 
li&gt; m.iki' the lawn, it is to be feared lest they sliould gradu- 
i»tl&gt; niiiniiiiriatit to themselves a portion of that authority 
wtiii'li the ( 'onstitution had vested in his liaiids. This 
diiliniili'iice of the executive power is one of the defects 
uilxnint lit iv])ublican const! tu tion;;. The Americans have 
M&lt;t Iki'ii able to counteract the ten&lt;k^icy wliicli legislative 
Kiifiidiliert have to get iK)ssession of tlie {jovemment, but 
thev haie rendered tliis |)i-o](ensity less irresistible. The 
Mllarv (if tlie President is fixed, at the time of his entering 
upDii office, for the whole period of his mairistracy. The 
I'n-sident is, moreover, armed with a suspensive veto, 
which allows him to oppose the passing uf such laws as 
might destroy the portion of independence which the Con- 
Mlitution nwanls him. Yet the struf^jle between the Presi- 
dent and the legislature must always Im? an nneijual one, 
since the latter is certain of bearing down nil n-sistance by 
yeivcvering in its plans ; but tlie suspensive veto forces it, 
•t loMt, to reconsider the matter, and, if the motion be 



THE FEDEBAL COHSTtTDTIOH. 1£8 

persisted in, it must thea be backed by a majority of two 
thirds of the whole house. The veto is, moreover, a sort 
of appeal to the people. The executive power, which, 
without this security, might have been secretly oppressed, 
adopts this means of pleading its cause and stating its mo- 
tives. But if the legislature perseveres in its design. Can 
it not always overpower all resistance ? I reply that in 
the constitutions of all nations, of whatever kind they may 
be, a certain point exists at which the legislator must have 
recourse to the good sense and the virtue of his fellow-citi- 
zens. This point is nearer and more prominent in repub- 
lics, whilst it is more remote and more carefully concealed 
in monarchies ; but it always exists somewhere. There is 
no country in wliich everything can be provided for by the 
laws, or in which political institutions can prove a subsli- 
tate for common sense and public morality. 



m WHAT THE POSmON OP A PBESIDENT OF THE TUflTBD 
BTATEB DIFFERa FBOU THAT OF A CONaTrnjTIONAl. KIHO 
OF FRANCE. 

executive Power is tlie United 8tat«t u limited «nd eK«ptionftl m the 
SovcreigQij' which it repreBenu. — ËiecntÏTe Pover in France, tike the 
Stata Sovereignty, extendi to eyerything. — The King a Branch of the 
tegislaiure. — The President tlie mere Enecntoc of the Law. — Othei 
Dlficrcncca resnlting from ibe Duration of the two Powers. — The Pre»^ 
ident checked in the Exerdae of the Execntire Anthoritj. — The King 
Independent in its Exercise. — In ipite of these DiSirencci, France ii 
more akin to a Republic than tbe Onion to a Honarchj. — CompanMa 
of the Numhcr of Public Officers depeodisg apon the Executive Powei 
in the two Coantriea. 

The executive power has so important an influence on 
the destinies of nations, that I wish to dwell for an instant- 
on this portion of my subject, in order more clearly to ex- 
plain the part it sustains in America. In order to form m, 
clear and precis» idea of the position cf the President of 




DEMOCRACY IK AMEBICA. 

the United States, it may be well to compare it with that 
(rf one of the constitutional kings of Europe. In this com- 
parison, I shali pay but little attention to the exh?mal signs 
of power, which are more apt to deceive the eye of the 
observer than to guide his researches. ^Vhen a monarchy 
is being gradujJly transfoiinetl into a republic, the execu- 
tive power retains the titles, the honors, the etiquette, and 
even the funds of royalty, long after its rca] authorhy has 
disappeared. The English, after having cut olF the head 
of one king, and expelled another from liis throne, were 
still wont to address tlie successors of those princes only 
Open Uieir knees. On the other hand, when a republic 
fidls tmder the sway of a single man, the demeanor of the 
sovereign remains as simple and impretending as if his an- 
thority was not yet paramount. When the Emperors ex- 
ercised an unlimit^ control over the fortunes and the lives 
of their fellow-citizens, it was customary to call them 
Cœsar in conversation ; and tliey were in the Iiabit of 
sapping without formality at their friends' houses. It ia 
therefore' necessary to look below the surface. 

The sovereignty of the United States is shared between 
the Union and the States, whilst, in France, it is undivided 
and compact : hence arises the first and most notable dif- 
ference which exists between the President of tlie United 
States and the King of France. In the United States, the 
executive power is as limited and exceptional as the sover^ 
eignty in whose name it acts ; in France, it is as universal 
as the authority of the State. The Americans have a Fed- 
eral, and the French a national government. 

This cause of inferiority résulta from the nature of 
things, bat it is not the only one ; the second in impor- 
tance b as follows. Sovereign^ may be defined to be the 
ri^t of making Uws. In France, the King really exercises 
a portion of the sovereign power, since the laws have no 
. vfligbt if he refuses to sanction them ; he is, moreover, the 



THE PEDEEAL CWNSTITOTION. 166 

Qzecutor of all they ordain. The President is also the ex- 
ecutor of the laws ; but he does not really co-operate ia 
making them, since the refusal of his assent does not pr»* 
vent their passage. He is not, therefore, a part of the sov^ 
ereign power, but only its agent But not only does the 
King of France constitute a portion of the sovereign 
power ; he also contributes to the nomination of the legis- 
lature, which is the other portion. He participates in it 
through appointing the members of one chamber, and dis- 
solving the other at his pleasure ; whereas the President 
of the United States has no share in the formation of the 
l^;isktive hody, and cannot dissolve it. The King has the 
same right of bringing forward measures as the Chambers, 
— a right which the President does not possess. The King 
is represented in each assembly by his ministers, who ex- 
plain his intentions, support his opinions, and m^tain the 
principles of the government. The President and his 
ministers are alike excluded from Congress, ao that his 
inSuence and his opinions can only penetrate indirectly 
into that great body. The King of France is, therefore, 
on an equal footing with the legislature, which can no more 
act without him than he can without it. The President is 
placed beside the legislature like an inferior and dependent 
power. 

Even in the exercise of the executive power, properly 
BO called, — the point upon which his position seems to be 
most analogous to that of the King of France, — the Pre»- 
ident labors under several causes of inferiority. The au- 
thority of the King, in France, has, in the first place, the 
advantage of duration over that of the President ; and 
durability ia one of the chief elements of strength ; noth- 
ing is either loved or feared but what is likely to endure.' 
The President of the United States is a magistrate elected 
for four years. The King, in France, is an hereditary sov- 




PEHOORACT Df AMHHCA. 



In tf» Kcwcise of die eEecutive power, the President of 
Att United Statei is constantiy subject to a jealoits supei^ 
vin&lt;)n&gt; He may prepare, but he cannot conclude, a treaty- 
he may nominale, but be cannot appoint, a public officer." 
The King (rf Prajice is ubeolute wkbin the sphere of exeo- 
tttiw power. 

Th« President of the United StKtei ia reepittnUfl M&gt; 
^ actions ; bat the penal of lite King ia dftdandiiM^ 
«laUo by French law. ' * ' "'■ "^N 

Kevertheless, public opioloH as -i dif e eUag ptfirix fi-'i^ 
liM aboTo the head of dke otte t3»n of fts Mur. TUs 
power is less definite, leH evident, ind lÛ- Émctkifedd^iigr 
the laws in France tton in Ameif«a ; bat it tbiUftâHAH 
there. In America, it acta by elections and decrees ;' in 
France, it proceeds by revolutions. Thus, notwithstanding 
the different constitutions of these two countries, public 
opinion is the predominant authority in both of them. 
The iundamental principle of legislation — a principle 
essentially republican — is the same in both countries, 
although ita developmenta may be more or less free, and 
its consequences different. Whence I am led to conclade, 

■ The CoDatiCatioQ has left it doabtAil whether the Pieeident is obliged 
to cottanlt (ha Senate in the remoTal es well aa in the appointment of Fed- 
&lt;nl offlcen. The Federalist (No. 77) soemed to establish the offinnatiTC ; 
tnu in 1 789, CoD^rew formollj dedded, that, as the President was responsible 
be liis actions, he ongbt not to be fbiced to emplo; agenu wlio had foriUied 
his esteem. .See Kent's Commentaries, Vol. L p. 38E&gt;. [See also Danid 
Webster's speech on the Appointing and Bemoving Power, Webster's Works, 
IV. 18S ; MarshaU'i Washington, V. 196 ; Sergeant &amp; Rawle's Beports, V. 
451. The decision of CongteM upon this sabject in I7S9 was bj a verj 
amoll majority in the House, and in the Senate it passed only bj the casting 
Tott of the Vic»j'nddeat And tUa deddoo is onlj by in/eratct from the 
Act thus passed, which proridea, that, when the Setratary of the Treasaiy 
sboold be T«tnoved by tlie Pieeident, hi* assistant shall discharge the dntiea 
ot the office., Ur. Spencer rightly obserrea, that the power ha* been 
" ttipeatedly denied in and out of Congrasa, and mnst be considered as yet 
d qnesdon." — Ak. Ed.] 



THE FEDEBAL CONSirTUTOM. 157 

that France with its King is nearer akin to a republic, than 
tlie Union with its President is to a monarchy. 

In a]] that precedes, I have touched only upon the main 
points of distinction ; if I could have entered into detallg, 
the contrast would have been still more striking. 

I have remarked that the authority of the President in 
the United States is only exercised within the limits of a 
partial sovereignty, whilst that of the King in France is 
undivided. I might have gone on to show that the power 
of the King's government in France exceeds its natural 
limits, however extensive tliese may be, and penebBtes in 
a thousand different ways into the administration of pri- 
vate interests. Amongst the examples of this infiuence 
may be quoted that which results from the great number 
of public functionaries, who all derive tlieir appointments 
from the executive government. This number now ex- 
ceeds all previous limits ; it amounts to 138,000 * nomina- 
tions, each of which may be considered as an element (^ 
power. The President of the United States has not tlio 
exclusive right of making any public appointments, and 
their whole number scarcely exceeds 12,000.f 

* The nim9 anaiuUI; paid bj the state to these officen amount to 
100,000,000 francs (eight millions sterling). 

t This namber is extnuned from the " National Calendar " for 1B33. 

It reinlu from diia comparison, that the King of France has eleren timm 
ai rnaoT places at his diaposal as the PnaidenI, although the popolation of 
Vnaee u not much more than doable that of the Union. 

[The rast increase of the population of tho United States, since De 
Tocqueville wrote, Irom thirteen miliiong to nearly thirty millions, and tha 
consequent necessary enlarf&gt;ement of the machinOTj of goTeminent, haa 
nearly reversed these proportions. The patronage of the Prmidcot of tha 
United Ststce is now enormooi, and has become a dominant feature in tha 
opération of our national goTemment. Beckoning the eobordioate offlcen 
in the Pos^OfIice and Cubioiub departments, ail of iriiom dcrlTc their if- 
poiutments either directly or indireedy &amp;ora the Pnsidcnt, and continna in 
oAce only darinjc hit plearare, and most of whom, in fact, gire place to obit 
tacnmbents at every chancy of adminiatralton, it ii easy to aee that iba la- 



DSyOCftACT IS AUERIOA. 



AtMtal Sararilj «f ik* IMm. — Ana^ «C «x thonund Mou— P«y^ 
8|j^ — 1W rmMm )■• gnM Prco^to, btii no Or^nniiidT'^J 
^BKMv ^^ — b A* ntncttina «hkh he docs exenûc, ha ^^B 

Ip th« «xccotin goraBBMnt is feel^ in Amerio^iaÉ 
i» Fnn&lt;:«t ^ cun b pohq» mora attribataUe to d» 
wrumstances thw to dw Inn of aie cotmtiy. 

It a chiefly in it* ftmgo T^atiaDa ^lat the cxeoBlm 
power of ft nation finds occamon to ez^ its skill and its 
atraigth. If the enstemce of the Union were perpetoaUy 
dinatened, if its chief interests were in daily connection 
TTÎth those of other powerful nations, the executive gov- 
«nuncnt would assume an increased importance in propor- 
tion to the measures expected of it, and to those which it 
would execute. The President of the United States, it is 
true, is the conunander-in-chief of the army, but the army 
is composed of only six thousand men ; lie commands the 
fleet, but the fleet reckons but few sail ; he conducts the 
for^gn relations of the Union, but the United States are 
a nation without neighbors. Separated from the rest of 
the world by the ocean, and too weat as yet to aim at the 
dominion of the seas, they have no enemies, and their in- 
terests rarely come into contact with those of any other 
n^on of the globe. This proves that the practical opera- 
tion of the government must not be judged by the theory 
of its constitution. The President of the United States 
possesses almost royal prerogatives, which he has no op- 
portunity of exercismg, and the privileges which he can at 



I possesses 

K portunit] 

K Boence of 

K ^pOB*l, llO 



of the execative gOTemnent, throngb Iho nnmbcr of places at iu 
^pOBal, lias become excesdre, and imperils bath the mond character and Û» 
rcpabllcaa institntioiia. — Am. Ed.] 



THE FEDERAL CONSTTTUTIOH. 159 

present use are very circumscribed. The laws allow tmn 
to be strong, bnt circumstances keep Tiim weak. 

On the other hand, the great strength of the royal pre- 
rogative in France arises from circumstances far more than 
from the laws. There the executive government is con- 
stantly stniggling agamst immense obstacles, and has im- 
mense resources in order to overcome them ; so that it is 
enlarged by the extent of its achievements, and by the 
importance of the events it controls, without modifying its 
constitution. If the laws had made it as feeble and as 
circumscribed as that of the American Union, its inâueace 
would soon become still more preponderant. 



WHY THE PRESIDENT OF THE OOTTED STATES DOES HOT 
HEED A MAJOEITT IN THE TWO HOUSES IN ORDER TO 
CARRY OS THE GOVERNMENT, 

It is an established axiom in Europe, that a constitution- 
al king cannot govern when opposed by the two branches 
of the legislature. But several Presidents of the United 
States have been known to lose the majority in the legisla- 
tive body, witliont being obliged to abandon the supreme 
power, and without inflicting any serious evil upon society, 
I have heard this fact quoted to prove the independence 
and the power of the executive government in America: 
a moment's reflection will convince us, on tlie contrary, 
that it is a proof of its weakness. 

A king in Europe requires the support of the legislature 
to enable him to perform the duties imposed upon liim by 
the constitution, because those duties are enormous. A 
constitutional king in Europe is not merely the executor 
of the law, but the execution of its provisions devolves so 
completely upon him, that he has the power of paralyâng 
its force if it opposes his designs. He requires the assise 
ance of the le^slative assemblies to make the law, but those 



o ». u BH,jj|j«u la Botm as the 

vunance. 

In Amork-a, tlic Président cannot prevent anj 
'vni:: 1'asso.i, nor can ho evade the obligation of , 
11. His sincera and zealous co-operation is no doul 
but is not indiqieosable, in carrying on public affi 
Ab imjwrtant acts, ha is directly or ijidirecliy s 
•* lepsJature; and of Ins own fiee autiiority, ht 
Ian BtUo. It is thcirfore his tv,»kne8», and not liis 
•rbicli enables him to remain in opposition to Cono, 
turoRe, hamtonj. must reign between the cromT 
l&lt;!g|shit«,^, because a collision between them nta- 
jmous; n, Amaica, this hatmonj. is „„t i„disp 
1-c.uso such a collision is impossible. ^ 

M«no» or THB PMiaiDlOlT. 
"■J'ZT»"' '^. '"" '""" »™" I" F"!»"'»" » « 



THE FKDEBAL CONSTrnmOH. 161 

«ometanceii in which the electOTB are placed. The moat 
woght]? argument against the election of a cliief magistrate 
IB, that it offers so splendid a lure to private ambition, and 
is so apt to inflame men in the pursuit of power, that, when 
Intimate means are wanting, force may not un&amp;equently 
seize what right denied. It is clear tliat, the greater the 
prerogatives of executive authority are, the greater is the 
temptation ; the more the ambition of the candidates is ex- 
dted, the more warmly are their interests espoVlsed by ft 
throng of partisans, who hope to share the power when 
their patron has won the prize. The dangers of the eleo&gt; 
tive system increase, therefore, in the exact ratio of the 
influence exercised by the executive power in the affairs of 
the state. The revolutions of Poland are not solely attrib- 
utable to the elective system in general, but to the fact 
that the elected monarch was the sovereign of a powerful 
kingdom. 

Before we can discuss the absolute advantages of the 
elective system, we must make preliminary inquiries as to 
whetlier the geographical position, the laws, the habits, the 
manners, and the opinions of the people, amongst whom it 
ia to be introduced, will admit of tlie establishment of a 
weak and dependent executive government ; for to attempt 
to render the representative of the state a powerful sover- 
eign, and at the same time elective, is, in my opinion, to 
entertain two incompatible designs. To reduce hereditary 
royalty to the condition of an elective authority, the only 
means that I am acqumnted with are to circumscribe its 
sphere of action beforehand, gradually to dinxinish its pre- 
rc^tives, and to accustom the people by degrees to Uve 
without its protection. But this is what the republicans 
of Europe never think of doing : as many of thera bate 
tyranny only because they are exposed to its severity, it is 
expression, and not the extent of the executive power, 
which excites their hostility ; and they attack the fonn«r, 



142 DEHMBÀOr TX AamOL - 

vithout perceiving how neuly h û bouaeeted viàl'&gt;AB 

ktter. . ,j. 

■ Hitherto, no citizen lun cued to e^qw bâ honor Mfd fak 
life in order to become the Fnndcnt of the United Strie», 
because the power of that office k te^torary, limited, lad 
subordinate. The prize of ioTtniM most he gre^ to en- 
courage adventurers in bo doqieoate a game. No candir 
date has as yet been able to arooae the dangeroaa eathiui- 
asm or the passionate synftatlûes vf the people in jus favor, 
for the eiraple reason that, when he is at the head of the 
- government, he has bat little power, little wealth, and little 
glory to share amongst his friends ; and his inflnence in the 
state is too small for the snccess or the min of a fiiction to 
depend upon his elevation to power. 

The great advantage of hereditary monarchies is, that, 
as the private interest of a &amp;niily is always intimately 
connected with the interests of the state, these state inter- 
ests are never neglected for a moment ; and if the affairs 
of a monarchy are not better conducted than those of a 
republic, at least there is always some one to conduct them, 
well or ill, according to his capacity. In elective states, on 
the contrary, the wheels of government cease to act, as it 
were, of their own accord, at the approach of an election, 
and even for some time previous to that event. The laws 
may, indeed, accelerate the operation of the election, which 
may be conducted with such simplicity and rapidity that 
the seat of power will never be left vacant ; but, notwith- 
standing these precautions, a break necessarily occurs in 
the minds of the people. 

' At the approach of an election, the head of the execu- 
tive government thinks only of the struggle wliich is com- 
ing on ; he no longer has anything to look fonvard to ; he 
can undertake nothing new, and he will only prosecute 
with indifference those designs which another will perhaps 
terminate. " I am so near the time of my retirement from 



TSE FEDERAL CONSTITTITION. 168 

office," said President Jefferson, on the 21st of Jannaiy, 
1809, (six weeks before the election, •)■ " that I feel no 
passioB, I take no part, I express no sentiment. It appears 
to me just to leave to my successor the commencement of 
those measures which he will have to prosecute, and for 
which he will be responsible." On the other hand, the 
eyes of the nation are centred on a single point ; all are 
watching the gradual birth of so important an event. 

The wider the influence of the executive power extends, 
the greater and the more necessary is its constant action, 
the more Ëital is the t^rm of suspense; and a nation 
which is accustomed to the government, or, stiU more, 
one used to the administration of a powerful executive 
authority, would be infeUihIy convulsed by an election. 
In the United States, the action of the government may 
be slackened with impunity, because it is always weak and 
circumscribed. 

One of the principal vices of the elective system is, that 
it always introduces a certain degree of instability into the 
internal and external policy of the state. But this disad- 
vantage is leas sensibly felt if the share of power vested in 
the elected magistrate is small. In Rome, the principles 
of the government underwent no variation, altlioiigh the 
Consuls were changed every year, because the Senate, 
which was an hereditary assembly, possessed tlie directing 
authority. In most of the European monarchies, if the 
king were elective, the kingdom would be revolutionized 
at every new election. In America, the President exercises 
a certain influence on state affairs, hut he does not conduct 

■ De Tocqnerillo is in error hare. The election was reallj determined 
tbree months before, in November, ISOS ; and Jefferson, irriting eix neeka 
(«/6r« hU tuccasor, already chosen, tnu to come into ogiix, merely expresK* 
hii intention to leave Mr. Uailison lo initiate hia own policy, instead of em- 
barrasaing Mm by leaving projects or meosares begnn, bat not completed. 
—Am. Ed. 



16f DBHOCBAOT 01 JOfBHCi^ 

tftcoi j flie preponderating power ik veetad in tlw r 
ttivc&lt;a of tlio whole nation. The p&lt;Jitical m«TÎm« gf ^ 
country depend, therefîne, on the nuw of the people, not 
on tile President alone ; and CMuequentij, in America, the 
elective system has no tbij prejndidal inflaenco on die 
fixity of tlie government But ib» want of fixed priociplei 
is an evil bo inherent in the elective syatem, that it ia still 
very perceptible in the narrow sphere to which the antfaov- 
ity of the President extends. 

The Americ&amp;ns have admitted that the head of the exeo* 
utive power, in order to discharge his du^ and bear tite 
whole weight of responsihili^, ought to be free to çhooae 
•lus own agents, and to remove them at pleasure : the le^isr 
lative bodies watch the conduct of the President more than 
they direct it. The consequence is, that, at every new 
Section, the fete of all the Federal public officers is in 
suspense. It is sometimes made u subject of complaint, 
that, in the constitutional monarchies of Europe, the fate of 
the humbler servants of an administration often depends 
tipon that of the ministers. But in elective governments 
this evil is fiir greater ; and the reason of it is very ob^us. 
In a constitutiontd monarchy, snccL'ssive ministries are 
rapidly formed ; but as the principal representative of the 
executive power is never changed, the spirit of innovation 
is kept within bounds; the clianges which take place are 
Bi the details, ratlior tlian in tlie principles, of the adminis- 
trative system : but to substitute one system for another, 
ta is done in America every four years by law, is to cause 
a sort of revohitioii. As to the misfortunes which may fell 
upon individuals in consequence of this state of things, it 
nust be allowed that tlie uncertain tenure of the public 
-(^ces docs not produce tlie evil consequences in America 
which might be expected from it elsewhere. It is so easy 
to acquire an independent position in the United States, 
th^frik^Dublic officer who loses his place may be de&lt; 



THE FEDERAL COMSTITDTIOH. 166 

prived of the comfbrU of life, bat not of the means of 
Babsistence. 

I remarked at the beginning of this chapter, that the 
dangers of the elective system, applied to the head of the 
state, are augmented or decreased by the peculiar circum- 
stances of the people which adopts it. However the fiinc- 
tions of the executive power may be restricted, it must 
always exercise a great influence upon the foreign policy 
of the country ; for a negotiation cannot be opened, or 
successfully carried on, otherwise than by a single agent. 
The more precarious and the more perilous the position of 
a people becomes, the more absolute is the want of a fixed 
and consistent external policy, and the more dangerous 
does the system of electing the chief ma^trate become. 
The policy of the Americans in relation to the whole 
world is exceedingly simple ; and it may almost be said 
that nobody stands in need of them, nor do they stand in 
need of anybody. Their independence is never threat- 
ened. In their present condition, therefore, the functions 
of the e.Yecative power are no less limited by circum- 
stances than by the laws; and the President may fre- 
quently cliange his policy, without involving the state in 
difficulty or destruction. 

^Vhatever the prerogatives of the executive power may 
be, the period which immediately precedes an election, and 
that during which the election is taking place, must always 
be considered as a national crisis, which is perilous in pro&gt; 
portion to the internal embarrassments and the external 
dangers of the country. Few of the nations of Europe 
could escape the calamities of anarchy or of conquest 
everj' time they might have to elect a new sovereign. In 
America, society is so constituted that it can stand without 
assistance, upon its own basis ; nothing is to be feared from 
the pressure of external dangers ; and the election of the 
President is a cause of agitation, but not of ruin. 



DEUOCBACY Of AlEEBlOJt 



MODE OP ELEcnOS. 



Skill of the American Legixkiora shown in the Mode of Election iulo]&gt;tod 
bj them. — Crealion of u special Electoral Boiij. — Sepamte Voiea of 
thdfio Eloctora. — Case in which iho UoMe of fc|i«s(iiiiatiTib is called 
npoQ to chooEC tliu PresIdcnL — Results of the twelve Elections which 
have takan plaro aiDCS the Constitution has been cstablialicd. 

Besides the dangers which are inherent in the eystem, 
many others may arise from the mode of election ; but 
these may be obviated by the precautions of the legislator. 
When a people met in arms, on some public spot, to choose 
its head, it was exposed to ail the chances of civil war re- 
sulting from such a mode of proceeding, besides Jlie dan- 
gers of the (.-leclive ms1i-iti iu it.^-'lf. Ti.e I-'»li&gt;li Ims, 
which subjected the election of the sovereign to the veto 
of a single individual, suggested the murder of that indi- 
vidual, or prepared the way for anarchy. 

In the examination of the institutions, and the political 
aa well as social condition of tlie United States, we are 
struck by the admirable harmony of the gifts of fortune 
and the efibrts of man. That nation possessed two of the 
diain causes of internal peace ; it was a new country, but it 
was inhabited by a people grown old in the exercise of free- 
don). Besides, America bad no hostile neighbors to dread ; 
and the American legislators, profiting by these fiivorable 
circumstances, created a weak and subordinate executive 
power, which could without danger be made elective. 

It then only remained for them to choose the least dan- 
gerous of the various modes of election ; and the rules 
which they laid down upon this point admirably correspond 
to the securities which the physical and political constitu- 
tion of the country already afforded. Their object was to 
find the mode of election which would best express the 
choice of the people with the least possible excitement and 
suspense. It was admitted, in the first place, that the 



THE FEDERAL 'CONSTITUTION. IflT 

■ûnple mAJority should decide the point ; but the dif&amp;cal^ 
was, to obtain this majority without an interval of delay, 
which it was most important to avoid. It rarely happens 
that an individual can receive at the first trial a majority 
of the suffi-ages of a great people ; and this difficulty is 
enhanced in a republic of confederate states, where local 
influences are far more developed and more powerful. 
The means by which it was proposed to obviate this sec- 
ond obstacle was, to delegate the electoral powers of the 
nation to a body which should represent it. This mode of 
election rendered a majority more probable ; for the fewer 
the electors are, the greater is the chance of their coming 
to an agreement. It also offered an additional probability 
of a judicious choice. It then remained to be decided 
whether this right of election was to be intrusted to the 
l^islature itself, the ordinary representative of the nation, 
or whether a special electoral college should be formed for 
the sole purpose of choosing a President. The Americans 
chose the latter alternative, from a beUef that those who 
were chosen only to make the laws would represent but 
imperfectly the wishes of the nation in the election of its 
chief magistrate ; and that, as they are chosen for more 
than a year, the constituency they represented might have 
changed its opinion in that time. It was thought that, if 
the legislature was empowered to elect the head of the 
executive power, its members would, for some time before 
the election, be exposed to the manœuvres of corruption 
and the tricks of intrigue ; whereas the special electors 
would, like a jury, remain mixed up with the crowd till 
the day of action, when they would appear for a moment 
only to give their votes. 

It was therefore determined that every State should 
name a certain number of Electors,* who in their turn 
The number of Electon mt 



108 DCMOCKACY IS AMKBICA. 

ibonid elect the Prandfot} imAmkimA ban lihpifNt 
thiU tlio usemblieB to whiA flw chci— of tiitJminuffatiHt» 
lud been intrusted ia ■h c ti '?» sooBttiM kmniJbfyhigmBm 
the centres of pusàca «aJ^B^dj .Art .they. imiiinfiMW 
unirped powera whidi &lt;bd aot bdong to them; utd.tfiÉk 
their procoedings, or the a aoartMu y which resuUed finm 
them, yn&gt;r*&gt; sometioMS prolonged to mach as to endangM 
the n-ol&amp;re of the stat*, — it ww detsmûied that &amp;e Sbd' 
tors shiHild all rota upon the am* day, without beàng oDèn 
Tokvd ti^ the same pUoe.* Tliis donUe election lendeMii 
« maKtrity probable, thoa^ not certain ; for it was p 
that tlw Electors might ih^ anj more than their coQstil 
«Mino I» nn agreement In this oaae, it would be necessary 
tu ha\-v Tvcourse to one of three measures ; either to appoint 
new Eli'ctors, or to consult a second time those already ^^ 
poiiiti.Hl, or to ^ve the election to another authority. The 
first two of these alternatives, independently of the uncer- 
tainty of tlieir results, were likely to delay the final de- 
cision, and to perpetuate an agitation which must always 
be accompanied with danger. The third expedient was 
tlierefore adopted, and it was agreed that the votes should 
be transmitted, sealed, to the President of the Senate, and 
that they should be opened and counted on an appointed 
day, in the presence of the Senate and the House of Kep- 
reaentatives. If none of the candidates has received a 
majority, the House of Representatives then proceeds im- 
mediately to elect the President; but with the condition 
that it must fix upon one of the three candidates who have 
the highest number of votes in the Electoral Collcge.f 

■ Tbe Electors of the mae State assemble, but cbej transmit to the een- 
tnl t^overnmcnt Che list of (heir mdiTidual voles, uid pot the mere remit 
of the TOte of the majority. 

t Id thie case, it is ihe msjoritf irf the Stales, and not the majoritj of the 
members, whkh doddes the qaettion; so that Koff Yori: has not more infln- 
•ooe is the debate thsm Rhode Island. Thus the citiiCD» of tbe Union ara 
Bnt consulted as members of one and the «amg communitj ; and, if the]r 



Tiœ tEVEAAh OOHSTmmOH. 169 

Thus, it is only in case of an event which cannot (rften 
happen, and which can never be foreseen, that the election 
is introâted to the ordinaiy Kepresentadves of the naticai ; 
and even then, they are obliged to choose a citizen who has 
already been designated by a powerfiil minority of the 
special Electors. It is by this happy expedient that the 
respect whicli is due to the popular voice is combined with 
tlie utmost celerity of execution, and with those precautions 
which the interests of the country demand. But the de- 
cision of the question by the House of Bepresentatives 
does not necessarily offer an immediate solution of the 
difficulty ; for the majority of that assembly may still be 
doubtliil, and in this case the Constitution prescribes no 
remedy. Nevertheless, by restricting the number of can- 
didates to three, and by referring the matter to the judg- 
ment of an enlightened public b«^dy, it has smoothed all 
the obstacles • which are not inherent in the elective sys- 
tem itself. 

In the forty-four years which have elapsed since the pro- 
mulgation of the Federal Constitution, the United States 
have twelve times chosen a President. Ten of these elec- 
tions took place at once by the simultaneous votes of the 
specbt Electors in the different States. The House of 
Representatives has only twice exercised its conditional 
privilege of deciding in cases of uncertainty: the first time 
was at the election of Mr. Jefferson in 1801 ; the second 
was in 1825, when Mr. J. Quincy Adams was named.f 

caanot agree, rccourte is had to the dirision of the Stales, each of which ha&gt; 
a «eparate and indcpcndeot vote. This ia one of ebe uogulBTiciea of tha 
Federal Coosiituiioa, vhich can be explained onl^ bj the jar of conflicting 
intereaU. 

■ Jefferson, in 1801, wa* not elected ttndl the thir^^ixth time of bal- 

t SeventjT'^wo jcara harlng now elapted, there hare been nineteen Freti- 
dential eiectiooB, and atill tlie Honae of BepreeentatÏTes has been leqnired ta 
act in the election only twice. — Am. En. 



ITS imioouor m- ^iomoA"- 

CEISI8 OF THB JUKItOV. 

The Election m»; bi 

— FudoDi of the Peoplti— AudtQ' «T (to RvUtnt— CUÉrAUt 
tncoeeds die Agitation of A» »'«**'™ 

I HAVE shown what the drcnmataoces are whicli bvOTQit 
the adoption of the elective ejtbem in the United StataS 
and what precautions were taken hy the le^jislators to ob- 
viate its dangers. The Americans are accnatomed to rU 
kinds of elections ; and th^ knew hy ezperienc» the çt* 
most degree of excitement which is compatible with secotii- 
ty. The vast extent of the trountiy and the disseminatûm 
of the inhabitants render a collision between parties lesa 
probable and less dangerous there than elsewhere. The 
political circumstances under which the elections have been 
carried on have not, aa yet, caused any real danger. Still, 
the epoch of the election of the President of the United 
States may be considered as a crisis in tlie affairs of the 
nation. &gt; 

The influence which the President exercises on public 
business is no doubt feeble and indirect ; but the choice of 
the President, though of small importance to each individ- 
ual citizen, concerns the citizens collectively ; and however 
trifling an interest may be, it assumes a great degree of 
importance as soon as it becomes general. The President 
possesses, in comparison with the kings of Europe, but few 
means of creating partisans ; but the places whicli are at 
his disposal are sufficiently numerous te interest, directly 
or indirectly, several thousand electors in his success.* 
Moreover, political parties in the United States are led to 
rally round an individual in order to acquire a more tangi- 

■ Owing to tho increase of patronnge alicadj referred to as noceuarilf 
produced hy tbo voit iDcreaao of the population, this inflaonco has uoir be. 
e, and rcrj dangerous. — Am. Ed. 



THE FEODAL COMSTITUTIOH. 171 

ble sliapo in the eyea of the crowd ; and the name of the 
candidate for the Presidency is put forward as the symbol 
and personification of their theories. For these reascms, 
parties are strongly interested in gaining the election, not so 
much with a view to the triumph of their principles under 
the auspices of the President elect, as to show, by bis elec- 
tion, that the supporters of those principles now form the 
majority. 

For a long while before tbe appointed time is come, the 
election becomes the important, and (so to speak) the all- 
engrossing, topic of discussion. The ardor of action la 
redoubled ; and all the artificial passions which the imagi- 
nation can create in a liappy and peacefid land are agitated 
and brought to light. The President, moreover, is ab- 
sorbed by the cares of self-defence. He no longer governs 
for tlie interest of the state, but for that of liis re-election ; 
he docs homage to the majority, and instead of checking 
its passions, as his duty commands, he frequently courts its 
worst caprices. As tbe election draws near, the activity 
of intrigue and the agitation of the populace increase ; the 
citizens are divided into hostile camps, each of which as- 
sumes the name of its favorite candidate ; the whole nation 
glows with feverish excitement ; the election ia tlie daily 
theme of the public papers, the subject of private conver- 
sation, the end of every thought and every action, the sole 
interest of the present. It is true, that, as soon as the 
choice is determined, this ardor is dispeUed ; the calm re- 
turns ; and the river, which had nearly broken its banks, 
sinks to its usual level : but who can reirain from astonish- 
ment that such a storm should have arisen ? 




DKMOCHACT IN AMERICA. 



RB-ELECriON OF THE PRESIDENT. 

* (ivi. ih,&gt; lliwl of the ExccDtire Powur is ra-elijpble, it i&gt; the State which 
1» tho Si&gt;iiifo of Inirigne and Corrnptioti. — The Desire of being re- 
olwiiil ia (lie cliirf Aim of a PTvaident of the CniiwI Stnt^a, — Diiail- 
vantug,! „f tlic Rc-eloction peculfat to America. — Tho Salural Evil of 
Di'Hiocraiy ig, that it gradoslly Buhordiniilc» all Aathority to tho eligbt- 
'*t I&gt;csire» of tho Majoriij. — Tho Rn-clettioD of the Prcaiilont eutour- 
nt^e lliia Evil, 

Were the legislators of the United States right or wrong 
Ml allowiiig the re-eiection of the President? It aeems, at 
Hrat siirlit, contrary to a]] reason, to prevent the head of 
"&gt;e fXfentive power from heing elected a second time. 
■ID© influence which the talents and the character of a 
s'ïïgle individual may exercise upon the fate of a whole 
People, especially in critical circnmstances or ardaons 
•unes, is well known. A law preventing the re-election 
&lt;« the cliief magistrate would deprive the citizens of their 
test means of insuring the prosperity and the secnrity of 
the commonwealth ; and, by a singular inconsistency, a 
man would he e^îcluded from the government at the very 
time when he had proved his ability to govern weD. 

But if these arguments are strong, perhaps still more 
powerful reasons may be advanced agùnst them. Intrigue 
and corruption are the natural vices of elective govem- 
tfient ; but when the head of the state can he re-elected, 
these evils rise to a great height, and compromise the very 
existence of the country. When a simple candidate seeks 
to rise by intrigue, hia manœuvTes must be limited to a 
very narrow sphere ; but when the chief magistrate enters 
the lists, he borrows the strength of tbe government for 
bia own purposes. In the former case, the feeble résolûmes 
□f an individual are in action; in the latter, the state 
df, with its immense inSuence, is busied in the work of 
oTuption and cabal. The private citizen, who employs 



THE FEDEBAL CONSTITUTION. 178 

culpable practices to acquire power, can act in a nuinnw 
only indirectly prejudicial to the public prosperity. But if 
the representative of the executive descends into the con^ 
bat, the cares of government dwindle for him into second- 
rate importance, and the success of his election is his first 
concern. All public negotiations, as well as all laws, are to 
him nothing more than electioneering schemes; places 
become the reward of services rendered, not to tlie nation, 
but to its chief; and tlie influence of the gov^Timent, if 
not injurious to the country, is at least no longer beneficial 
to the community for which it was created. 

It is impossible to consider the ordinary course of aiFairB 
in the United States without perceiving that the desire of 
being re-elected is the chief aim of the President ; that the 
whole policy of his administratioD, and even his most ii^ 
different measures, tend to this object ; and that, especially 
as the crisis approaches, his personal interest takes the 
place of liis interest in the public good. The principle of 
re-eli^bility renders the corrupting influence of elective 
governments still more extensive and pernicious. It tends 
to degrade the political raorahty of the people, and to sub- 
stitute management and intrigue for patriotism. 

In America, it injures still more directly the very sources 
of national existence. Every government seems to be 
afflicted by some evil which is inherent in its nature, and 
the genius of the legislator consists in having a clear view 
of tliis evil. A state may survive the influence of a host 
of bad laws, and the mischief they cause is frequently ex- 
aggerated ; hut a law which enconrages the growth of the 
canker within must prove iktal in the end, although its 
bad consequences may not be immediately perceived. 

The principle of destruction in absolute monarchies lies 
in the unlimited and unreasonable extension of the royal 
power ; and a measure tending to remove the constitutional 
{)rovi8ions which counterbalance this influence would be 



iU namObwr dP I 



hiâicallj ^36.à, even if itt i 

mtiittended with erS. Bjr poi^ flf naamniig, m &lt; 
tria f^verned by a doMCnKy, iriwra ^ peq&gt;le b' pU^ 
p«tunlly drawing bQ «nthor^ to itael^ the lairs i^bAdi 
increase or accelento dû actk» directly attack the rtrj 
principle of the gorammcnt. 

The greatest merit of dw American legislators is, dut 
ther clearly disemwd dkit tnith, and had the courage to 
act up to it. llwy eonoeÏTed tbat a certain anthtni^ 
^o\&gt;* the body of the people was necessary, which shonU 
H^y a di^T^e of independence in ita sphere, without bong 
«ntin^ly beyond t}&gt;e popular ccmtrol ; an authority which 
would Im&gt; forced to comply with the permanent determina- 
tions of tlic majority, but which would be able to resist its 
capriiH'*, and refuse its most dangerous demands. To this 
end, thoy centred the whole executive power of the nation 
in a single arm ; they granted extensive prerogatives to the 
President, and armed him with tlie veto to resist the en- 
rroarhmcnts of the legislature. 

But by introducing the principle of re-election, they 
partly destroyed their work ; they conferred on the Presi- 
dent a great power, but made liim little inclined to use it. 
If ineligible a second time, the President would not be in- 
dependent of the people, for his responsibility would not 
cease ; but the favor of the people would not be so neces- 
tÈÊTy to him as to induce him to submit in every respect to 
Its desires. If re-eligible, (and this is especially true at 
flie present day, when political morality is relaxed, and 
*hen groat men are rare,) the President of the United 
States becomes an easy tool in the hands of the majority. 
He adopts its likings and its animosities, he anticipates its 
fishes, he forestalls its complaints, he yields to its idlest 
lavings, and instead of guiding it, as the legislature in- 
Bnded that he should do, he merely follows its bidding, 
rhus, in order not to deprive the state of the talents of ia 



THE FEDERAL CONSTTTUTIOS. ITS 

individual, those talente have been rendered almost nseless; 
and to keep an expedient for extraordinaiy perils, the 
(viantr; has been exposed to continual dangers. 



FEDERAL COURTS OF JTJSnCE.* 

Political Importaora at the Judicial^ in the Uiiilad Smm. — Difficulty of 
treating tht» Sulijcct — imii^ of Jadidal Foifct in Conféderatioii*. — 

Whai Tribuimls oontd be inCrodaoed iaU&gt; the Union Ifeceni^ of m&gt; 

tablishJDg Fedcisl Cotms of JnMice. — Organiiation of the National 
Jadinaty. — The Supreme Court. — In what it diSén ftum all knom 
Tribunats. 

I HAVE examined the legislative and executive power . 
of the Union, and the judicial power now remains to be 
considered ; hut here I cannot conceal my fears from the 
reader. Their judicial institutions exercise a great inSu- 
ence on tlio condition of the Anglo-Americans, and th^ 
occupy a very important place amongst political institu- 
tions, properly so called : in this respect, they are pe- 
culiarly deserving of our attention. But I am at a loss 
how to explain the political action of the American tribu- 
nals without entering into some technical detail» respecting 
their constitution and their forms of proceeding; and I 
cannot descend to these minutiœ without wearying tlie 
reader by the natural dryness of the subject, or falling into 
obscurity through a desire to be succinct. I can scarcely 
hope to escape these different evils. Ordinaiy readers will 
complain that I am tedious, lawyers that I am too concise. 
But those are the natural disadvantages of my subject, and 
especially of the point which I am now to discuss. 

The great difficulty was, not to know how to constitute 
the Federal government, but to find out a method of en- 
forcing its laws. Governments have generally but two 

* Sco Chapter VI.,cutitled "JodidalPoweriu the UnitcdStalca." Hill 
duipter ezplaini the general piionplea of the American jodkiai]'. 



meuu of otetoomig &lt;|hi m i Hi i&lt;(liW!&lt;f ib^i 
maetj, the phyBicfll finB».«Wk jfr «fe'^Mfe «int'«lflll^ 
«ad the moral iôroe wUA ÙHT UAn ttomè ifcft àadiâll 
(^ the courb of justioe. ■ i "*"■ 

A goTemmeot which diotild hare no otber meriH -of 
exactmg obedience than open war, maxt be Teiy Bear -iti 
ruin, for one of two tbin^wodlct then probaUjr hafpan I» 
it. If it waa weak .snivtMBpw^ it would mort tA-ni^ 
lance only at the last MInniÉjs and wosU tObrntiH st 
aumj partial acta of inntbavdSBaliMl j then Ae BtMsiirMS 
gradually &amp;U into aoardly. V it waa cnteiptitftt^lÉI 
powerful, it would emy iaj have mconrae to phJniMl 
strength, and thus would lûon &amp;11 into a militaiy dc^ot^^ 
ism. Thus its actiTitj and its inertziess would be equally 
prejudicial to the commnnity. 

The great end of justice is, to substitnte the notion of 
right for that of violence, and to place a legal barrier be- 
tween the government and the use of physical force. It ia 
a strange thing, the authority which is accorded to the io- 
tearention of a court of justice by the general opinion of 
mankind I It clings even to the mere formalities of justice, 
and gives a bodily influence to the mere shadow of the 
law. The moral force which courts of justice possess ren- 
ders the use of physical force very rare, and is frequently 
substituted for it ; but if force proves to be indispensable, 
its power b doubled by the association of the idea of law. 

Â federal government stands in greater need than any 
other of the support of judicial institutions, because it ia 
naturally weak, and exposed to formidable opposition.* If 

* Vedenl l&amp;m an thon which moM reqiire coarts of justira, and tbo«e, 
■t the asms time, whicb have mon taiel; established them. The toaaon ii, 
that conredcratioDB have oinallf been formed hj independent stales, wldch 
bad DO real iotendOD of ot&gt;e;ing the central government ; and tliongh liiej 
leadil; ceded thai right of command to Ae MDOal govormaent, th^ ca»- 
M^ reaertvd the light of d 



THE FEDERAL CONBTmjTlON. 177 

Lt were always obliged to resort to violence in the first ia- 
«taace, it could not fijfil its task. The Union, therefore, 
stood in spécial need of a jndiciaiT' to make its citizem 
obey the laws, and to repel the attacks which might be 
directed against them. But what tribunals were to exei^ 
cise these privileges ? Were they to bo intrusted to the 
courts of justice which were already organized in every 
State ? Or was it necessary to create Federal courts ? It 
may easily be proved that the Union could not adapt to iti 
wants the judicial power of the States. The separation &lt;£ 
the judiciary from the other powers of the state is nece»- 
sary for the security of each, and the liberty of all. Bnt 
it is no less important to the existence of the nation, 
that the several powers of the state shoidd have the same 
origin, follow the same principles, and act in the same 
^here ; in a word, that they should he correlative and ho- 
mogeneous. No one, I presume, ever thought of causing 
offences committed in France to be tried by a foreign court 
of justice, in order to insure the impartiality of the judges. 
The Americans form but one people in relation to thar 
Federal government ; but in the bosom of this people di- 
vers political bodies have been allowed to subsist, which 
are dependent on the national government in a few pointa, 
and independent in all the rest, — which have all a distinct 
origjn, maxims peculiar to themselves, and special means 
of carrying on their af^irs. To intrust the execution of 
the laws of the Union to tribunals instituted by these 
poUtical bodies, would be to allow foreign judges to preside 
over the nation. Nay, more ; not only is each State for- 
eign to the Union at large, but it is a perpetual adversary, 
since whatever authority the Union loses turns to the ad- 
vantage of the States. Thus, to enforce the laws of the 
Union by means of the State tribunals would be to allow 
not only foreign, but partial, judges to preside over the 



VtS DEUOCBACT IN AUERIOi. 

Bat tl&gt;o number, still more than the mere character, of 
tlio State iHbiinaU. made thorn unfit for the service of the 
nation. When the Federal Constitution waa foimod, there 
■wens already tliirWen courte of justice in the United States, ' 
whicli decided causes without appeal. ThaJ nMsber is 
BOW inorcasod to twenty-four [thirty-fourjt^'^^uppose 
Ihat A xtato can subsist, when its fundamental laws ore 
■ mljjoctctl to four-and-twenty different interpretations at 
IIm nnia time, is to advance a proposition alike contrary 
lf&gt; roiLoon and to experience. 

The American hffàutou thenfine agreed to (arast» » 
Federal judidal power to mppfy llie Iswa of &amp;e UnioBi.^l 
to determine certain questions affecting genend ïntereris, 
which were carefully defined beforehand. The eAtire jndi- 
Olil power of the Union was centred in one tribunal, called 
the Supreme Court of the United States. But, to fecOi- 
tate the expedition of business, inferior courts were ap- 
pended to it, which were empowered to decide causes of 
small importance without appeal, and, with appeal, causes 
of more magnitude. The members of die Supreme Court 
are appointed neither by the people nor the le^lature, bat 
by the President of tlie United States, acting with the 
advice of tlie Senate. In order to render them Indepen- 
dent of the other authorities, their office was made inalien- 
able ; and it was determined that their salary, when once 
fixed, should not be diminished by the le^slature.* It 
was easy to proclaim the principle of a Federal judiciary, 
bnt difficulties multiplied when the extent of its jurisdiction 
was to be determined. 

* Tho Union mi divided into districti, in csfli of vhich a resident Fed- 
sal jndge irai appointed, and lbs conrt in which ho presided was Icrmed a 
"" DittricI Conn." Each of the judges of the Supreme Court annnatlf rinU 
% certain portion of tha cosntij, in order to try the most important cawBi 
ttpoD tho spot; the conn pre«ided orer by this magistiato is styled a "Cir- 
cuit Court ." Loatlj, all the most serions cases of litigation are bronglit, 
^j^^gf primarily or b; ^ipeali before the Snpremo Conit, irhich holds a 



THE FEDERAL COHSTITUTIOH. 



Sifflcnltj of determiniiig the JnrigdictioQ of the difibient Courto of Jnstloa 
in ConfbdeiBtions. — Th« Conns of the Union obtained the Right of 
Exing their own Juriadiction. — In what RepecU this Rnle attacks tha 
Portion of Sovereignty reaeircd to the iCTeral Scatca. — The Sorei- 
eignty of these States reatiicted by the I«irt and by the Interpretatiui 
of the Ism. — Danger thiu incoired b^ the leTeral States more ^par- 
ent than reaL 

As the constitation of the United States recognized two 
distinct sovereignties, in presence of each other, repre- 
sented in a judicial point of vie^ by two distinct classes of 
courts of justice, the utmost care taken in defining their 
separate jurisdictions would have been insufficient to pr^ 
vent frequent collisions between those tribunals. The 
question then arose, to whom the right of deciding the 
competency of each court was to he referred. 

In nations which constitute a single body politic, when a 
question of jurisdiction is debated between two courts, a 
third tribunal is generally within reach to decide the dif- 
ference; and this is effected without difficulty, because, 
in these nations, questions of judicial competency have no 
connection with questions of national sovereignty. But it 
was impossible to create an arbiter between a superior 
court of the Union and the superior court of a separate 
State, which would not belong to one of these two classes. 
It was therefore necessary to allow one of these courts to 

ioleniD ecssion once a year, at which aU the jadgea of the Circuit Courts mu«t 
attend. Tho jary wae introdnced into the Federal courts, in tha same 
tnaoner, and for the same cases, as into the conrti of the States. 

It will be obccrved that no analogy exists between the Supremo Conit ta 
the United States and the French Caur dt Caua^on, s[nce tho latter ooly 
bean appeals. The Snpieme Conrt judges of tho fact, as welt as the law, 
of the case ; the Cour de Camotioa doe* not pronoonce a decision of Iti 
own, but refer* the causa to amodier tribnnaL 



■«uj uic atvaiKiguiy oi me uiuon (to Jaato, 
established it de jure; for the interpretation ol 
tuttnii iviiiilil soon have restored to the States 
of iiuk']ien(!ein.'e of ivhieh the tenns of tlic 
deprived tliem. The object of creating a Futi 
was to prevent the State courta irom decidiii 
its own fashion, questions affecting the natior 
and BO to form a uniform body of JurLtpi-udt 
interpnUution of tlie laws of tlie Union. Thi 
not have been attained if the conrts of the se 
even while they abstained from deciding casi 
Federal in their nature, had been able to dec 
pretending that they were not Federal. Tl 
Court of the United States was therefore ir 
the right of determining all questions of jurisdi 
Tliis was a scTere blow to the sovereignty of 
which was thus restricted not only by the laws 
interpretation of them, — by one hmit which 
and by another which was dubious, — by a ruli 
certain, and one which was arbitrary. It is tn 
atitution had laid down the precise limits of 
mpromacy ; bnt whene\*er this supremacy is c 
one of the States, a Federal tribunal decides t 
Norerthelesa. the danirpr* with w],:/.&gt;. »!.« ;"J- 



TES FEDERAL CONSimmOM. 181 

âiat, in America, the icol power is vested in the States &amp;r 
more than in the Federal government. The Federal 
jadges are conscious of the relative weakness of the 
power in whose name thej act; and they are more 'a^■ 
clined to abandon the right of jurisdiction, in cases where 
the law gives it to them, than to ass^t a privilege to 
which th^ have no legal claim. 



DIFFSRENT CASES OF lURISDICIlOIt. 

The Mittor uid the Party are the Flnt Conditioiu of the Fledent Jnriidfe' 
tioD. — BnitB in which Ambaiiadon m engaged. — Or Cha Union. — 
Or a separate Slate. — By whom tried. — (!aa&gt;«&lt; nsalting fiom dn 
Laws of the UiJod. — Why jndged by tbe Federal Tribnnala. — CaOMM 
telating to the Non-peiformance of Contracts tried by the Federal Conita. 
— Coosequencea of thii Anangement. 

After establishing the competency of the Federal conrts, 
the legislators of the Union defined the cases which shonld 
come within their jimadiction. It was determined, on the 
one hand, that certain parties mnst always be brought 
before the Federal courts, without regard to the special 
nature of the suit ; and, on the other, that cert^ causes 
must always be brought he&amp;re the same courts, no mat- 
ter who were the parties to them. The party and the 
cause were therefore admitted to he the two bases of Fed- 
eral jurisdiction. 

Ambassadors represent nations in amity with the Union, 
and whatever concerns these personages concerns in some 
degree the whole Union. When an ambassador, therefore, 
is a party in a suit, its issue afiects the welfare of the 
nation, and a Federal tribunal is naturally called upon to 
decide it. 

The Union itself may be involved in legal proceedings 
and, in this case, it would be contrary to reason and to the 
customs of all nations to appeal to a tribunal representing 



ISS DEHOORACT m AMEBICA. 

tny otiier sovereignty tlian ïts own: the Federal cotirU 
alone, therefore, take cognizance of these affairs. 

When two parties belonging to two dift'ereiit Statca ara 
engaged in a suit, the case cannot witli propriety be 
brought before a court of either State. The surest exp&amp;- 
dient is to select a tribunal which can excite the suspicions 
of neither party, and this is naturally a Federal court. 

When the two parties are not private individuals, but 
States, an important political motive is added to the same 
consideration of equity. The quality of the parties, in 
this case, gives a national importance to all their disputes; 
and the most trifling htigation between two States may bSv 
said to involve the peace of the whole Union.* 

The nature of the cause frequently prescribes the mle 
tyf competency. Thus, all questions which concern marw 
time afiurs evidently fall under the cognizance of the Fed- 
eral tribunals.! Almost all these questions depend on the 
interpretation of the law of nations ; and, in this respect, 
they essentially interest the Union in relation to foreign 
powers. Moreover, as the sea is not mcluded within the 
limits of any one State jurisdiction rather than another, 
only the national courts can hear causes which origînatâ in 
maritime affairs. 

■ The Constitution comprises under one head almost all 
the cases which, by their very nature, come before the 

• The Cooatinitioa also ïajv that the Fcdaral coarU «bsD decide " con. 
froTciBieB between &amp; State luiil Uie cicizcug of anoiher Sute." And here t, 
non important question uoee, — whether the joiisdictioD given b^ the Con- 
Mitation, in cases in which a State i» » party, extended to «aim brooglit 
Ofvonri a Slate a» well as i^ it, or was excliuivelj confitied to the latter. 
The question was most elaborately coasideitd in the case of Ckishalm v. 
Gtorgia, and wai decided by the mojori^ of (he Supreme Court in the at 
finnotive. The decision created general alarm among the Statea, and an 
amendment was proposed and ratified, by which the powcz was enliTaly 
taken away m fkr n« it regai^ suits brought offoinil a State. 

t As, for instance, aU caoea of piracy. 



THE FEDERAL CONETITUTIpN. ISf 

Federal courts. The rule which it lays down is simple^ 
bat pregnant with an entire system of ideas, and with a 
mollitade of iacts. It declares that the judicial power of 
the Supreme Court shall extend to all cases in law and 
eqni^ anting under the lawi of the United Stales. 

Two examples will put the intention of the le^lator in 
the clearest light. 

The Constitution prohibits the States from making laws 
OD the value and circulation of money. If, notwithstand- 
ing this prohibition, a State passes a law of this kind, with 
which the interested parties refuse to comply because it is 
contrary to the Constitution, the case must come before » 
Federal court, because it arises under the laws of the 
United States. Again, if diiBculdes arise in the levying 
of import duties which have been voted by Congress, the 
Federal court must decide the case, because it arises under 
the interpretation of a law of the United States. 

This rule is in perfect accordance with the fundamental 
principles of the Federal Constitution. The Union, as it 
was established in 1789, possesses, it is true, a limited sov- 
ereignty; but it was intended that, within its Umits, it 
should form one and the same people.* Within those 
limits, the Union b soveràgn. When this point is esr 
tablished and admitted, the inference is easy ; for if it be 
acknowledged that the United States, witliia the bounds 
prescribed by their Constitution, constitute but one people, 
it is impossible to refuse them the rights which belong to 
other nations. But it has been allowed, from the origin of 
society, that every nation has the right of deciding by lis 
own courts those questions which concern the execution 

* This principle wu, ia aome measure, reitricMd 
the •ereral States as indepcmlBnt ponors &gt;ii( 
them to Tote separ&amp;telj in the House of ]topr«iioala&lt;li 
U etecied bj tbat bod/. But these ate exccpiiona, 
ii the rule. 




184 DEMOCBACT IN AKERICA. 

of its own laws. To this it is answered, that the Union is 
in BO singular a position, that, in relation to some matters, 
it constitutes but one people, and in relation to all tJie rest, 
H is a nonentity. But the inference to be drawn is, that, 
in the laws relating to these matters, the Union possesaes 
all the rights of absolute sovereignty. The difficulty ia to 
know what these matters are ; and when once it is re- 
solved, (and we have shown how it was resolved, in speak- 
ing of the means of detennining the jurisdiction of the 
Federal courts,) no further doubt can arise ; tor as soon as 
it is established that a suit is Federal, that is to say, that it 
belongs to the share of sovereignty roaorved by tlie Consti- 
tndon to the Union, the nutuml consequence is, that it 
should come within the jurisdiction t£ a Federal court. 

Whenever the laws of the United States are attacked^ 
or whenever they are resorted to in self-defence, the Fed- 
eral courts must be appealed to. Thus the jurisdiction of 
aie tribunals of the Union extends and narrows its limits 
exactly in the same ratio as the sovereignty of the Union 
augments or decreases. We have shown that the principal 
aim of the legislators of 1789 was to divide the sovereign 
authority into two parts. In the one, they placed the con- 
trol of all the general interests of the Union, in the other, 
the control of the special interests of its component States. 
Their chief solicitude was, to arm the Federal government 
•with sufficient power to enable it to resist, within its sphere, 
the encroachments of the several States. Aa for these 
communities, the general principle of independence within 
certain limits of their own was adopted in their behalf; 
there the central government cannot control, nor even 
inspect, their conduct. In speaking of the division of au- 
thority, I observed that this latter principle had not always 
been respected, since the States are prevented from passing 
certain laws, which apparently belong to their own partio- 
nlar sphere of interest. When a State of the Union passes 



THE FEDERAL 0(»I&amp;1TnmOH. 186 

a lav of this kind, the citizens who are injured hy its ez" 
ecation can appeal to the Federal conrta. 

Thus the jnrisdictioa of the Federal courts extends, not 
aiAj to all the cases which arise under the laws of the 
Union, bot also to those which arise under laws made l^ 
the several States in opposition to the Constitation. The 
States are prohibited from making ex-pott-faeto laws in 
criminal cases ; and any person condemned by virtue of a 
law of this kind, can appeal to the judicial power of the 
Union. The States are likewise prohibited from making 
laws which may impair the obligation of contracts,* If a 
citizen thinks that an obhgatioQ of this kind is impaired by 
a law passed in his State, he may refuse to obey it, and 
may appeal to die Federal courts, f 

* It is perfectly clear, mjb Mr. Storj, (Commentsriei, p. SOS, or in &amp;• 
large edition § 1379,) ihM an; law which enhtrgeB, abridges, or in any id«ii&lt; 
Her changea the intention of the paitiM, tetnlting from the atipiilations ia 
the contract, neccesarilj iiDpaiia it He ^res in the same place a rcrj can- 
loi definition of what is nndenlood hy a contract in Federal Jurisprudence. 
The definition is veiy broad. A grant made b; the State to a prirate indi- 
vidual, and accepted bj him, it a contract, and caimot be t«voked by ttaj 
filtiue law. A charter granted bj the State to a company is a contract, and 
equally binding oa the State aa On the grantee. The clause of the Constitu* 
tion here referred to insure*, âiercfoie, the existence of a groat part of ac- 
quired rightB, but not of all. Property may legally be held, though it may 
not have passed into (he powewor's handi by mean* of a contiact ; and tti 
poescssioa is an acquired right, not gnaranteed by the Federal Constitution. 

t A remailtable instance of this ia g^ven by &amp;Ir. Story (p. SOS, or in the 
Urge edition J ISSS). «Dartmootb College in New Hainpaliire had been 
founded by a charter granted to certain individuals befbre the American 
Berolucton, and its tnisteea fbnned a corporation under this charter. The 
législature of New Hampsfaira had. without the consent of this corpomtion, 
passed an act changing the term* of the original charter of the Collt^, and 
transferring all the rights, privilegta, and franchisct d 
charter to new trustees appointed under ihe 
the act was coutoatcd, and the cause was cai 
eral) Court, where [t was held, that the Provindi 
within the meaoing of the Conititntion, and thai fl 
Bttetly TOtd, as impairing the ohiigatii 




186 DEHOcBAcr ra ahebica. 

This provision appears to mo to be the moat serioiu 
attack upon the independence of tlie States. The rights 
accorded to the Federal government for purposes obWously 
national are definite and easily understood: hat tliose witli 
which tliia clause invests it are neither clearly appreciable 
nor accurately defined. For there are many politicul laws 
which affect the existence of contracta, which might thus 
Ornish a pretest for the encroachments of tlie central au- 
thority.* 

* The BppnhflDEiona expnsscd in this puagraph «xta lo bo nnfanndlHl. 
Tho object of tho clanse in (be Constiiotion respecting contracta is not so 
mocli CO streni^en (he Fcilctal goTemmâDt aa to protect priratc indii'idunli 
■gainst liiUTiiful and unjnsl Stale Ipgiitlatioii. It doC! not limit ihc power 
of the 8t«ie«, «Kcept ij prahitniing tlieni from committine podtiTe vnong; 
They can still legislate npon the snhjeet otjiiture contracta ; tbey can pie- 
•cribe nhat contracts aball be fonoed, and boir ; bnt thej cannot impair any 
thu BTO already made. Anj law which «boald aathoriie tho breach of s con- 
tract already made, ol in any way impair ila obligation, wonld be obvioiuly 

Moreover, ai Mr. Spencer observes, the anthor ii in error " in supposing 
the judiciary of the United Slates, and particukrlr the Supreme Court, to 
be a part of the poiiticai Federal goTomment. and a ready instrument to ex- 
«eate its designs upon the Sisto auAoiilies. Although the judj:^ are in 
form eommi^oncd by Che United States, yet they ai« in fact appointed by 
the dcleg:ates of the States, in tho Senate of the United States, coDcumocly 
with and acting apon tbe nomination of the President. In truth, the jn&gt; 
didary have no political duties to pcifonn ; they are arbiters chosen by the 
Federal and State governments jointly, and, when appointed, as independent 
of ODB as of the other. They cannot be removed without the consent of 
tbe States repnsentcd in the Senate ; and they can be removed nithouc the 
consent of the Preùdent, and against his wishes. Snch is the theory of the 
Coostilatioii. And it has been felt practically, in the rejection by the Seitate 
of persons nominated ta judges by- a President of the same political paitj 
with A minority of the Senators. Two insiancet of this kind occurred dor 
log tbe admiuistntlon of Mr. leHsnou," — An. En. 



THB TKDESAL C0N3TITDTI0N. 



FBOCEDUBE OF THB FEDEBAL COUBTS. 

HUnnl WeaknESB of the Jndidal Power in Cooibdentioiu. — Legùlaton 
ought, a» mach u powible, lo bring PriTUs Individaali, And not SIkU^ 
bdbre (he Federal ConrU. — Hov the Americaiu bave mcceeded in this. 

— Direct Prosecatioii o( Private Indiridosb in tb« Federal ConrO. — 
Indirect PraaecDtion of the States whidi violate tbe Iawi of the Union. 

— Tbe Decrees of the Supreme Court enervate, bat do not deatroj, Û» 
Bum I«wa. 

I HATE shown what the rights of the Federal courts are, 
and it is no less important to show how they are exercised. 
The irresistible authority of justice in countries in which 
the sovereignty is undivided, is derived &amp;oui the &amp;ct, tliat 
the tribunals of those countries represent the entire nation 
at issue with the individual agtunst whom their decree is 
directed ; and the idea of power is thus introduced to coi^ 
roborate the idea of right. But it is not always so in 
countries in which the sovereignty is divided ; in them, the 
judicial power is more frequently opposed to a fraction of 
the nation, than to an isolated individual, and its moral 
authority and physical strength are consequently dimin- 
ished. In Federal states, the power of the judge is natu- 
rally decreased, and that of the justiciable parties is au^ 
mented. The aim of the legislator in confederate states 
ought therefore to be, to render the position of the courts 
of justice analogous to that which they occupy in coun- 
tries where the sovereignty is undivided ; in other words, 
his efforts ought constantly to tend to maintain the jud^ 
cial power of the confederation as the representative of the 
nation, and the justiciaUe party as the representative of 
an individual interest. 

Every government, whatever may he ita constitution, 
requires the means of constraining its subjects to discharge 
their obHgations, and of protecting itâ privileges from their 
assaults. As &amp;r as the direct action of the government on 



the same people within the limits laid dowir I 
Btitutioii, the inference was that the govenim 
l&gt;v this constitution, and acting within these 
hivested with all the privilèges of a national g 
one of the principal of which is the right of t 
it« injunctions directly to the private citizen. 
instance, the Union votes an impost, it does n 
the Stat^ for the levying of it, but to every An 
isen, in proportion ta his assessment. The Supr 
which is empowered to enforce the execution 
of the Union, exert* its hiftuence not upon s 
State, but upon the private tax-payer ; and, Hk 
rial power of other nations. It acts only upon th 
on individual. It is to be observed that tlie 1 
itii own Biitagoniat ; and as tliat antagonist is P 
lutumllj worsted. 

But the difficulty increases when the proceed] 
brought forward bif, but against, tlie Union. 1 
tation recoguizea the legislative power of the Ï 
• law enacted by that power may violate the rij 
Union. In this case, a collision is unavoidabl 
that body and tlie State which has passed the b 
remmns to select the least dan^rous rem 



THE FEDEBAL CONSTTTUTIDN. 189 

wonid thns have been placed in direct opposition to the 
State, and it was desirable to avoid this predicament as 
much as possible. The Americans hold that it is nearly 
impossible that a new law should not injure some private 
interests by its provisions. These private interests are a^ 
sumed by the American legislators as the means of assail- 
ing such measures as may be prejudicial to the Union, and ■ 
it is to these interests that the protection of the Supreme 
Court is extended. 

Suppose a State sells a pordon of its public lands to a 
company, and that, a year afterwards, it passes a law by 
which the lands are otherwise disposed of, and that clause 
of the Constitution which prohîlûts laws impairing the 
obligation of contracts is thereby violated. When the puiw 
chaser under the second act appears to take possession, the 
possessor under the first act brings his action before the 
tribunals of the Union, and causes the title of the claimant 
to be pronounced null and void.* Thus, in point of fact, 
the judicial power of the Union is contesting the claims of 
the sovereignty of a State ; but it acts only indirectly, and 
upon an apphcation of det^. It attacks the law in its 
consequences, not in Its principle, and rather weakens than 
destroys it. 

The last case to be provided for was, that each State 
formed a corporation enjoying a separate existence and dis- 
tinct civil rights, and that it could therefore sue or be sued 
before a tribunal. Thus, a State could bring an action 
against another State. In this instance, the Union was 
not called upon to contest a State law, but to try a suit in 
which a State was a party. This suit was perfectly sim- 
ilar to any other cause, except that the quality of the par- 
ties was different ; and here the danger pointed out at tlie 
beginning of this chuter still exists, with less chance of 
brang avoided. It is inherent in the very essence of Fed- ' 

t, YoL L p. avi. 



140 iKHOcuOT iir mmci. 

«nl «mstitiitioiu, that Aey ahmld create partka in dw 
bosom of the nadtm, which présent poweribl obltadei to 
^ free coone of justice. 



No Nuioii em eoDtdtittad m gnM • Jodidal Pomr h tlw AnericKM. — 
Extent of Itt FmogatiTN. — IB FolitlaÉl Infloence.— The TiaaqnllllÇ 
and tba tcij Exiitenu of ths Unioii dqwnd on una DlMndcm of As 
Mren FedenI Jndget. 

When we have examined in detul the organization cf 
âte Supremo Court, and the entire prerogatives which it 
exercises, we shal] readily admit that a more imposing 
Judicial power was never constituted by any people. The 
Snprcme Court is placed higher than any known tribunal, 
both hy the nature of its rights and the class of justiciable 
parties which it controb. 

In all the ci\'ihzed countries of Europe, the government 
has always shown the greatest reluctance to allow the cases 
in which it was itself interested to be decided by the ordi- 
nary course of justice. This repugnance is naturally 
greater as the government is more absolute ; and, on the 
other hand, the pri\*ileges of the courts of justice are ex- 
tended with the increasing liberties of the people ; but no 
Buropcan nation has yet held that all judicial controvei^ea, 
without regard to their origin, can be left to tiie judges of 
common law. 

In America, this theory has been actually put in prac- 
tice ; and the Supreme Court of the United States is the 
•ole tribunal of tlie nation. Its power extends to all cases 
«rising under laws and treaties made by the national aa- 
Aonties, to all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, 
and, in general, to all points which affect the law of nations. 



THB FEDEBAL COKSTmJTMttT. -191 

It may even be affirmed that, although its constSttition is 
essentially judicial, its prerogatiTes are almost entirely po- 
litical. Its sole object is to enforce the execation of the 
laws of the Union ; and the Union only regulates the rela- 
tions of the government with the citizens, and of the na- 
tion with foreign powers : the relations of citizens amongst 
themselves are almost all regulated by the sovereignty of 
the States. 

A second and still greater cause of the preponderance 
of this court may be adduced. In the nations of Europe, 
the courts of justice are only called upon to try the con- 
troversies of private individuals ; but the Supreme Court 
of the United States sommons sovereign powers to its bar. 
When the clerk of the court advances on the steps of the 
tribunal, and simply says, " The State of New York versu» 
The State of Ohio," it is impossible not to feel that the 
coiut wliich he addresses is no ordinary body ; and when 
it is recollected that one of these parties represents one 
million, and the other two millions of men, one is struck 
by the responsibility .of the seven judges, whose decision is 
about to satisfy or to disappoint so large a number of their 
fellow-citizens. 

The peace, the prosperity, and the very existence of the 
Union are vested in the 'hands of the seven Federal judges. 
Without them, the Constitution would be a dead letter : 
the Executive appeals to them for assistance against the 
encroachments of the legislative power; the Legislature 
demands their protection against the assaults of the Exec- 
utive ; they defend the Union from the disobedience of the 
States, the States from the exaggerated claims of the Union, 
the public interest against private interests, and the con- 
servative spirit of stability against the fickleness of the de- 
mocracy. Their power is enormous, but it is tlie power of 
public opinion. They are all-powerful as long as the people 
respect the law ; but th^ would be impotent against po[H 



102, DEHOCBACT rS AUBBICA. 

nlar ne^ect or contempt of the law. - The force of paUic 
opinion is the most intractable of agents, hecaosa its extet 
Ihnits cannot be defined ; and it is not less dangerous to 
exceed, than to remain below, the boundaiy prescribed. 

The Federal judges must not onlj be good citizens, and 
men of that information and integrity which are indispen- 
sable to all magistrates, but they must be statesmen, wiaa 
to discern the signs of the tames, not afraid to brave the 
obstacles which can be sabdued, nor slow to turn away 
from the current when it threatens to sweep them oS, and 
tlie supremacy of the Union and the obedience due to Ûim 
laws along with them. 

The President, who exercises a limited power, may en 
without causing great mischief in the state. Congress 
may decide amiss without destroying the Union, becauM 
the electoral body in which the Congress originates may 
cause it to retract its decision by changing its members. 
But if the Supreme Court is ever composed of imprudent 
or bad men, the Union may be plunged into anarchy at 
civil war. 

The original cause of this danger, however, does not lie 
in the constitution of the tribunal, but in the very nature 
of federal governments. We have seen that, in confed- 
erate states, it is especially necessary to strengthen the judi- 
cial power, because in no other nations do those indepe»- 
dent persons who are able to contend with tlie social body 
exist in greater power, or in a better condition to reeist the 
physical strength of tlie government. But the more a 
power requires to be strengthened, the more extensive and 
independent it must be made ; and the dangers which its 
abuse may create are heightened by its independence and 
its strength. The source of the evil is not, tlierefore, in 
the constitution of the power, but in the constitution of 
the state wliich renders the existence of such a powee 
necessary. 



THE PEDISAI CONSTITUTION. 



How the CoQBIitation of the Union can be compared with that of the State*. 
— Superiority of the CoDititutioD of the Union attributable Co t&amp;e Wi«&gt; 
dom of the Federal Lcgialaton. — Legielataie of the Union lew depen- 
dent on iho People than that of the State». — Executive Power inoia 
independent in its Sphere. — Judicial Power less subjected Co the Will 
of the Miyority. — Practicsl ConBeqnenco of these FaetB. — The Dan- 
gen inherent io a Democratic Govcramenc diminished b; the Federal 
Legislators, and increased bj the Legislators of the Stales. 

The Federal Constitution différa essentially from that of 
the States in the ends which it b intended to accomplish ; 
but in the means by which these ends are attained, a 
greater analogy exists between them. The objects of the 
governments arc different, but their forms are the same ; 
and in this special point of view, there is some advantage 
in comparing them with each other, 

I am of opinion, for several reasons, that the Federal 
Constitution is superior to any of the State constitutions. 

The present Constitution of the Union was formed at a 
later period than those of the majority of the States, and it 
may have profited by this additional experience. But we 
shall be convinced that this is only a secondary cause of its 
superiority, when we recollect that eleven [twenty-one] 
new States have since been added to the Union, and that 
these new republics have almost always rather exaggerated 
than remedied the detects which existed in the former con- 
stitutions. 

The chief cause of the superiority of the Federal Con- 
stitution lay in the character of ^e legislators who com- 
posed it. At the time when it was formed, the ruin of the 
Confederation seemed imminent, and ils danger was univer- 
sally known. In tlds extremity, the people chose the men 
who most deserved the esteem, rather than those who had 



194 DEMOcucr ni AumoL 

gained the affections, of tlie conntry. I have «Inadf fl^ 
served, that, distingnÎBhed as shnost all the legislaton ti IHb 
Union were for their intelligence, they irere stiU mon «o 
for their patriotism. Th«y had all heen nurtured at a time 
when' the spirit of liberty was braced by a conlinaal stni^ 
gle against a powerfbl and dominant anthori^. When die 
contest was terminated, whilst the excited passions of tlM 
populace persisted, as nsoal, in warring agunst dangers 
which had ceased to exist, these men stopped short ; ibej 
cast a calmer and more penetrating look npon thrar coun- 
try ; thoy perceived that a definitÎTe revoluticm had been 
accomplished, and that the only dangers which America 
had now' to fear were those which might reenlt firom the 
abuse of freedom. They had the courage to say what they 
believed to be true, because they were animated by a warm 
and sincere love of liberty ; and they ventured to propose 
restrictions, because they were resolutely opposed to de- 
struction.* 

Most of the State constitutions assign one year for the 
duration of the House of Representatives, and two years 
(or that of the Senate ; so that memlwrs of the legislative 
body are constantly and narrowly tied down by the slight- 

• At this tiroo, AlwuinilBr Hamilton, who waa one of tlm principal found- 
en of Uic Constitution, Tcntored to express the following sentiments ia tin 
Federalist, No. 71 : — 

" There are some who would be inclined to regard the ecrrilo pliancy of 
the Executive to a pierailing current, either io the communiiy or in tba 
legialaturo, as its best rocomraendation. But anch men cnlerlain very crude 
nations, as well of the purposes for which government was instituted, as t^ 
the true means bj which the public happiness maj be promoted. The re- 
publican principle demands, thnt the delibcrativo sense of tho communis 
«hoilld govern tho condact of those to whom they intniat the management 
of their alWrs; hot it dOM not require an nnqnalified complaisanc* to everj 
fndden brciae of passion, or to every transient impulse which the people 
may reedve from the arts of men who fiacier their préjudices lo betray their 
tntensu. It is a jnst observation, that the people commonly intend Uit publie 
good. This oAen applies to their vacj errors. But their good senae wonld 



THE FEDERAL COHSTITUnON. 105 

est desires of their constitaents. The legators of the 
Union were of opinion that this excessive dependence of 
the l^slature altered the nature of the main consequences 
of the representative system, since it vested not only the 
source of authority, but the government, in the people. 
They increased the length of the term, in order to give the 
representatives freer scope for the exercise of their own 
judgment. 

The Federal Constitution, as well as the Stat« constitu- 
tions, divided the legislative body into two branches. But 
in the States, these two branches were composed of the 
same elements, and elected in the same manner. The 
consequence was, that the passions and incHnations of the 
populace were as rapidly and easily represented in one 
chamber as in the other, and that laws were made with 
violence and precipitation. By the Federal Constitution, 
the two houses ori^nate in like manner in the choice of 
the people ; but the conditions of eligibility and the mode 
of election were changed, in order that, if, as is the case in 
certain nations, one branch of the legislature sliould not 
represent the same interests as the other, it might at least 
represent more wisdom. A mature age was necessary to 

deppise the adnlatot who ahoold pretend th« they alwaja rtamn right about 
the mnint of promoting it. They know Irom expericnre tbat they som*- 
dmea err ; and the wonder is, that thej bo seldom err as the; do, beset, M 
the/ coDtiDnally are, by the wile* of pamaiiM and ayeophanta ; by the snare* 
of tbe ambition*, the svariciona, the desperato ; by the aitificea of men who 
possoa their confidence more than they de«erve it, and of those who seek to 
posses* rather than to dcscrre it. When occasions present themselves in 
which the interests of the people are at variance with their iD&lt;:li nation*, it i* 
tbe Aatj of the mrsou* whom they have appointed to bo the guardians ef 
tbosa interest* to withstand the temporary delnsion, in order to give tbem 
time and opportunity for more cool and sedate reflection. Instances mi^ 
be dted, in which a condact of this kind h*« saved the people from Tery 
fatal conscqaeQce* of their own miatak**, and ha* procured Usting monti- 
ment* of their (p^luda to the men who bad courage and magnanim]^ 
eoongh to Mnm them at the peril of Ihdr displeasore." 




TK DEMOCRACY DJ AMERICA. 

lecome &amp; Senator, and the Senate was chosen by an eloclp 
ed assembly of a limited number of members. 

To concentrate the whole social force in the hands of the 
legislative body is the natural tendency of democracies ; for 
as this is the power which emanates t]ie moat directly from 
the people, it lias the greater share of the people's over- 
whelming power, and it is naturally led to monopolize 
every species of îiilliience. This concentration of power 
is at once very prejudicial to a weL-condueted administra- 
tion, and favorable to the despotism of the majority. The 
legislators of tbe States frequently yielded to those demo- 
cratic propenaitie», which were invariably and cwirageosaly 
resisted by the founders of the Union. 

In the States, the executive power is vested in the hands 
irf a magistrate, who is apparently placed upon a level with 
the legislature, but who is in reality only the blind agent 
and the passive instrument of Its will. He can derive no 
power from the duration of his office, which terminates 
in one year, or from the exercise of prerogatives, for he 
can scarcely be said to have any. The legislature can 
condemn him to inaction by intrusting the execution of its 
laws to special committees of its own members, and can 
annul his temporary dignity by cutting down his salary.* 
The Federal Constitution vests all the privileges and all the 
responsibility of tbe executive power in a single individual. 
The duration of the Presidency is fixed at four years ; the 
salaty cannot be altered during this term ; the President is 
protected by a body of official dependents, and armed with 
a suspensive veto : in short, every effort was made to con- 
fer a strong and independent position upon the executive 
SQthority, within the limits which were prescribed to it. 

* Not «IwBTi. Id HTend of tho Staica, the compeasalion of tbe Ooveniot 
Gumot he lessened dariag hit term of offlcs. So, also, the Govemor'a tenn 
il Dot tlnVTs (or ft single jtaz. In m»/ of tbe State* it is two, Id tonM 
h U three, jeui. — Am. Ed. 



THE FXDKAL COHSnTDTIMI. 19T 

In the State conatitntlons, the JQdicia] power is tliat 
which is the most independent of the legislative authority ; 
nevertheless, in all tlie States, the legislature has reserved 
to itself the right of regulating the emoluments of the 
jadges, a practice which necessarily subjecte them to its 
immediate influence. In some States, the judges are ap- 
pointed only temporarily, which deprives them of a great 
portion of their power and their freedom. In others, the 
legislative and judicial powers are entirely confounded. 
The Senate of New York, for instance, constitutes in cer- 
tain cases the superior court of the State. The Federal 
Constitution, on the other hand, caretiilly separates the 
judicial power from all the others ; and it provides for the 
independence of tlie judges, by declaring that their salary 
shall not be diminislied, and that their functions shaU be 
inalienable. 

The practical consequences of these different systems 
may easily be perceived. An attentive observer will soon ~ 
remark that the business of the Union is incomparably bet- 
ter conducted than tliat of any individual State. The 
conduct of the Federal government is more iàir and tem- 
perate tlian that of the States ; it has more prudence and 
discretion, its projects are more durable and more skilfully 
combined, its measures are executed with more \-igor and 
consistency. 

I recapitulate the substance &lt;^ this chapter in a few 
words. 

Tlie existence of democracies is threatened by two prin- 
cipal dangers, viz. the complete subjection of the legisla- 
ture to the will of the electoral body, and the concentration 
of all the other powers of the government in the legislative 
branch. 

The development of these evils has been fiivored by the 
legislators of the States ; bat the legislators of the Uniqn 
have done all they could to render them less formidable. 



Ï98 



DKMOCBACT IN AMEEICJL 



CHARACTERISTICS OF THE FEDERAL CONSXmJTlON OF THS 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA A8 COUFABEO WITH ALL 
OTHEB FEDERAI. CONSlTrUTlONS. 

The Âmcririm Umoa sppcan lo neemlile all oiher Conféderatioiu, — Y«t 
iU ESwls arc difléreiit. — Benson of thk. — In what this Uolon diSàn 
&amp;aiD all olher CoafoJeratiouB. — Tbo AmericoD Govonuaoiit cot a Fed&gt; 
enil, but an imporfecC National Govcimacni. 

Toe United States of America do not afford the first or 
the only instance of a confederation, several of which have 
existed in modern Europe, without adverting to those cf 
antiquity. Switzerland, tlie Germanic Empire, and the 
Rujmblic of the Low Countries, either have been, or still 
are, confederations. Id studying the constitutions of these 
different countries, one is surprised to see that the powers 
witli which they invested the ièderal government are 
nearly the same with those awarded by the American Con- 
stitution to the government of the United States, They 
confer upon the central power the same rights of making 
peace and war, of rising money and troops, and of pro- 
viding for the general exigencies and the common interests 
of the nation. Nevertheless, the federal government of 
these different states has always been as remarkable for its 
weakness and inefficiency as that of the American Union 
is for its vigor and capacity. Again, the first American 
Confederation perished through tlie excessive weakness of 
its government; and yet this weak government had as 
large rights and privileges as those of the Federal govern- 
ment of the present day, and in some respects even larger. 
But the present Constitution of the United States contains 
certain novel principles, which exercise a most important 
influence, although they do not at once strike the observer. 

This Constitution, which may at first sight be con- 
ibuiided with the federal constitutions which have preceded 
it, rests in truth upon a wholly novel theory, which may 



THE FEDERAL C0NS1TTUTI0H. 199 

be considered as a great discovery in modem political sci- 
ence. In all the confederations which preceded the Amer- 
ican Constitution of 1789, the allied states for a common 
object agreed to obey the injunctions of a federal govern- 
ment ; but they reserved to themselves the right of ordain- 
ing and enforcing the executioa of the laws of the union. 
The American States which combined in 1789 agreed, that 
the Federal government should not only dictate the laws, 
but should execute its own enactments. In both cases, 
the right b the same, but the exercise of the right is dif- 
ferent; and this différence produced the most momentons 
consequences. 

In all the confederations which preceded the Ameiican 
Union, the federal government, in order to provide fw 
its wants, had to apply to the separate governments ; and 
if what it prescribed was disagreeable to any one of them, 
means were found to evade its claims. If it was power- 
ful, it then had recourse to arms ; if it was weak, it con- 
nived at the resbtance which the law of the union, its 
sovereign, met with, and did nothing, under the plea of 
inability. Under these circumstances, one of two results 
invariably followed : either the strongest of the allied states 
assumed the privileges of the federal authority, and ruled 
all the others in its name ; * or the federal government 
was abandoned by its natural supporters, anarchy arose 
between the confederates, and the union lost all power of 
acdon.f 

In America, the subjects of the Union are not Statesr 

* Thu was tbe cow \a Greece, when Philip ondertook to exocate ihe de- 
creet of tlie AmphiotjoDB ; in the Low Coimtriefl, whoro itic province of 
Holland always gave the law ; and, in our own time, in the Geimanic Cod- 
fédeiaCioa, in nliich Aiutria and Prussia moke ihemBelTCs tho sgenla of the 
Diet, and rale the whole confederation in its oamo. 

t Snch hai always been Ihe titostion of the Swiss Confederation, ^hich 
would have pcrinhcd agtm ago but for the mnCnal joaloniica of its Dlngb- 



SOO DEMOCBAOr m AMEBICUL 

but private citizenB ; the ludonal government levies a tax, 
not upon tlie State of MasuchosettB, bat ap&lt;Hi eacb iaiub'' 
Hont of Massachusetts. The old confedemte governmentB' 
presided over communities, but that of the Union preaidea 
over individuals. Its ibrce is not borrowed, but self&lt;lfr- 
rived ; and it is served by its own civil and military office», 
its own army, and its own courts of justice. It cannot be 
doubted tliat the national spirit, the passions of the mnll»- 
tude, and the provincial prejudices of each State, still tend 
singularly to diminish the extent of the Federal authority 
thus constituted, and to fiidlitate resistance to its mandatée ; 
but the comparative weakness of a restricted sovereignty is 
an e^il inherent in the Federal system. In America, each 
State has fewer opportunities and temptations to resbt: 
nor can such a design be put in execution, (if indeed it be 
entertained,) without an open violation of tlie laws of the 
Union, a direct interruption of the ordinary course of jus- 
tice, and a bold declaration of revolt ; in a word, without 
taking the decisive st£p which men always hesitate to 
adopt. 

In all fonner confederations, the privileges of the Union 
furnished more elements of discord than of power, since 
they multiplied the claims of the nation without augment- 
ing tie means of enforcing tliem : and hence tlie real weak 
ness of federal governments has almost always been in the 
exact ratio of their nominal power. Such is not the case 
in Uie American Union, in which, as in ordinary govern- 
ments, the Federal power has the means of enforcing all 
it is empowered to demand. 

The human understanding more easily invents new 
things than new words, and we are hence constrained to 
employ many improper and inadequate expressions. When 
several nations form a permanent league, and establish a 
supreme anthority, which, although it cannot act upon pri- 
vate indivi&lt;liials, like a national govenuuent, still acts upon 



THR FEDEBAL CONSTITUTION. 201 

each of the confederate states in a body, this goTcnunent, 
which is so essentiaUy different irom all others, is called 
Federal. Another form of society is afterwards discovered, 
in which several states are fused into one with regard to 
certain common interests, although they remain distinct, or 
only confederate, with regard to all other concerns. In 
this case, the central power acts directly upon the gov- 
erned, wham it rules and judges in the same manner as a 
national government, but in a more limited circle. Evi- 
dently tliis is no longer a federal government, but an 
incomplete national government, which is neither exactly 
national nor exactly federal ; but the new word which 
ought to express this novel thing does not yet exist. 

Ignorance of this new species of confederation has been 
the cause which has brought all unions to civil war, to sei&gt;- 
vitudc, or to inertness ; and the states which formed these 
leagues have been either too dull to discern, or too pusil- 
lanimous to apply, this great remedy. The first American 
confè4eration perished by the same defects. 

But ill America, the confederate States had been long 
accnstomcd to form a portion of one empire before they 
had won their independence ; they had not contracted the 
habit of governing themselves completely ; and their na- 
tional prejudices had not taken deep root in their minds. 
Superior to the rest of the world in political knowledge^ 
and sliaring that knowledge equally amongst themselves, 
they were little agitated by the passions which generally 
oppose the extension of federal authority in a nation, and 
those passions were checked by the wisdom of their great- 
est men. The Americans applied the remedy with firm- 
ness, as soon as they were conscious of the evil j they 
amended their laws, and saved the country. 



«• 



tern to unite t)ie twofol&lt;l Ailvantnges resulting from a 
lai^e Territorr. — Ad vantn(^s derived by the United 
Sv&gt;(ein. Tlic Law aclnjils ilai-lf to thu ICxigendcs i&gt; 
Population docs not ronforra to [he Exitrendcs of iho 
Progress, the Love and Enjojment of Freedom, in 1 
Hides — Public Spirit of the Union is onlj the Aggrc 
Furiodim. — Priudplee and Things circulate freely i 
of the Uuiiud Stales. — The Uiuuu it luip[)j iiud free 
and respected as » great cue. 

Ik small statea, the watcliiîilness of soci 
into every part, and the spirit of improvemt 
the smallest details ; the ambition of the 
necessarily checked by its weakness, all tl 
resources of the citizens are tui'iied to the 
being of tile Community, and are not likely t 
the fleeting breath of glory. The powers of 
ual being generally limited, his desires are 
small. Mediocrity of fortune mates tho van 
of life nearly equal, and the manners of the i 
orderly and simple. Thus, all things consi 
lowance being made for the various degref 
and enliglitenment, we shall generally find 
tions more persons in easy circumstances, : 



THE FEDEEAL CONSTITDTIOH. 208 

world, to which it properlj belongs, to meddle with the 
arrangements of private life. Tastes as well as actions are 
to be regulated ; and the families of the citizens, as well as 
the state, are to be governed. This invasion of rights 
occurs, however, but seldom, freedom being in truth the 
natural state of small communities. The temptatiom 
which the government oâers to ambition are too weak, 
and the resources of private individuals are too slender, 
for the sovereign power easily to Ml into the grasp of a 
single man ; and should such an event occur, the subjects 
of the state can easily unite and overthrow the tyrant and 
the tyranny at once by a common effort. 

Small nations have therefore ever been the cradle of 
political liberty ; and the fiict that many of them have lost 
their liberty by becoming larger, shows that their freedom 
was more a consequence of their small size than of the 
character of the people. 

The history of tlie world affords no instanc&amp;.of a great 
nation retaining the form of republican government for a 
long scries of years ; • and this has led to the conclusion 
that such a thing is impracticable. For my own part, I 
think it imprudent to attempt to hmit what is possible, and 
to judge the future, for men who are every day deceived in 
relation to the actual and the present, and often taken by 
surprise in the circmnstances with which they are most 
fimiiliar. But it may be said with confidence, that a great 
republic will always be exposed to more perils than a small 
one. 

All the passions which are most fatal to republican insti- 
tutions increase with an increasing territoty, whilst the 
virtues which favor them do not augment in the same 
proportion. The ambition of private citizens increases 
with the power of the state ; the strength of parties, with 

* I do not apeak of a, confedsnttoo of ihibU lepnlilica, bnt of k great eoa- 



wi^iuu v.i&gt;im VI liiigc sue, u laA uiunuiiy, si 
aiit:iponism of interests, are the dangers wlii 
variuljly arise from the ma^cnitucle of states 
those evils scarcely injure a monarchy, and ; 
even contribute to its strength and duration. 
ical states, the govemment has its peculiai 
may use, but it does not depend on, the con 
the more numerous the people, the stronger 
But the only security which a republican go' 

This support is not, however, proportionablj 
large republic tlian in a small one ; and th 
means of attack perpetually increase, both in 
influence, the power of resistance remains th 
may rather be said to diminish, since tlie im 
interests of the ppoplc are more diversified b 
of tlio population, and iJie difficulty of fonni 
m^ority is constantly augmented. It has bi 
moreover, that tlie intensity of human passic 
ened not only by the importance of tlio enc 
propose to attain, but by the multitude of in 
are animated by tbem at the same time. E 
had occasion to remark, that his emotions in 



THE FEDEBAL OONSTITUTIOK. 206 

freedom of men than, vast empires. Nevertheless, it Is 
important to acknowledge the peculiar advantages of great 
states. For the very reason that the desire of power is 
more intense in these communities than amongst ordinaiy 
men, the love of glory is also more developed in the hearts 
of certEun citizens, who regard the applause of a great peo- 
ple as a reward worthy of their exertions, and an elevating 
encouragement to man. If we would learn why great na^ 
tions contribute more powerfiilly to the increase of knowl- 
edge and the advance of civilization than small states, we 
shall discover an adequate cause in the more rapid and 
energetic circulation of ideas, and in those great cities 
which are the intellectual centres where all the rays of 
human genius are reflected and combined. To this it may 
be added, that most important discoveries demand a use of 
national power wliich the government of a small state is 
nnable to make: in great nations, the government has 
more enlarged ideas, and is more completely disengaged 
from the routine of precedent and the selfishness of local 
feeling ; its designs are conceived with more talent, and 
executed with more boldness. 

In time of peace, the well-being of small nations is un- 
doubtedly more general and complete ; but they are apt to 
suffer more acutely from tlie calamities of war tlian those 
great empires whose distant frontiers may long avert the 
presence of the danger from the mass of the people, who 
are therefore more frequently afflicted than ruined by the 
contest. 

But in this matter, as in many others, the decbive argu^ 
ment is the necessity of the case. If none but small na- 
tions existed, I do not doubt that mankind would be mwe 
happy and more free ; but the existence of great nations 
unavoidable. 

Political strength thus becomes a conditim &lt;il' nntiortul 
prosperity. It profits a state bat little to b» 




free, if it il perpettulty expand to be {ifll^ed or ita lJÉ 
g«ted ; its nuoiofiictanf md canmerce am of sneD wà- 
Tantage, if another natum has the empire of the aeai and 
gives the law in all the marketa of the ^obe. SmaD n»- 
tions are often miserable, not becaaae they are snail, bat 
because the^ are Treak; and great empires prosper, loss 
because they are great, than because they are strong. 
Physical strength is thereibre one of the first ctmditionB of 
the happiness, and even of the existence, of nations. Hence 
it occurs, that, unless veiy peculiar circumstances intemne^ 
■mall nations are always united to large emjnres in the md, 
either by force or b^ thdr own consent. I know not a 
more deplorable condition than that o^ a people unable to 
d^nd itself or to provide for its own wants. 

The Federal system was created with the intention of 
combining the dlfierent advantages which result firom the 
magnitude and the littleness of nations ; and a glance at 
the United States of America discovers the advantages 
which tliey have derived from Its adoption. 

In great centralized nations, the legislator is obliged to 
give a character of uniformity to the laws, which docs not 
always suit the di^-ersity of customs and of districts ; as he 
takes no cognizance &lt;^ special cases, he can only proceed 
upon general principles ; and the jKtpulation are obliged to 
conform to the exigencies of the legislation, since the 
legislation cannot adapt itself to tlie exigencies and the 
nistoms of the population ; which is a great cause of 
trouble and misery. This disadvantage does not exist in 
con&amp;dcrations ; Congress regulates the principal measiu'es 
of the national government ; and all the details of the ad- 
ministration are reserved to the provincial legislatures. 
One can hardly imagine how much this di^-ision of sov- 
ereignty contributes to the well-being of each of the States 
which compose the Union. Tn these small communities, 
which are never agitated by the desire of aggrandizement 



THE FEDERAL CONSTrnrnON. 207 

or the care, of selMefence, all public authority and privats 
energy are turned towards internal improvements. The 
central government of eacK State, which is in immediate 
juxtaposition to the citizens, is daily apprised of the wants 
which arise in society; and new projects are proposed 
every year, which are discussed at town-meetings or hy 
the legislature, and which are transmitted hy the press to 
stimulate the zeal and to excite the interest of the citizens. 
This spirit of improvement is constantly alive in the Amer- 
ican repubhcs, without compromising their tranquilli^; 
the ambition of power yields to the less refined and less 
dangerous desire for well-being. It is generally beheved 
in America, that the existence and the permanence of the 
republican form of government in the New Worid depend 
upon the existence and the duration of the Federal system; 
and it is not unusual to attribute a large sliare of the mis- 
fortunes which have be&amp;llen the new States of South 
America to the injudicious erection of great republics, 
mstead of a divided and confederate sovereignty. 

It is incontestably true, that the tastes and the habits 
of republican government in the United States were first 
created in the townships and the provincial assemblies. 
In a small State, like that of Connecticnt, for instance, 
where cutting a canal or laying down a road is a great 
political question, where the State has no army to pay and 
no wars to carry on, and where much wealtli or much 
honor cannot be given to the rulers, no form of govern- 
ment can be more natural or more appropriate tlian a re- 
public. But it is this same republican spirit, it is these 
manners and customs of a free people, which have been 
created and nurtured in the different States, which must 
be aftenvards applied to the country at large. The public 
spirit of the Union b, so to speak, nothing more tlian an 
â^regate or summary of the patriotic zeal of the separate 
provinces. Every citizen of the United States transports, 



808 dukxsaot n imiHia. 

■o to speak, his sttacliment to I» fittle lepoUîc fado Ab 
common store of Americaii patriotism, hi defending Uw 
Union, he défends the increuiiig pntperi^ of his am 
State or county, the right of cmdocting its a&amp;in, and tha 
hope of causing measures of inq)roTem«it to be adopted ni 
it which may be favorable to his oim intareets ; and these 
«re motives which are wont to stir men more than the geiH 
eral interests of the comitiy and thegloiy of the natiixi. 

On the other hand, if tiie temper and the manners of 
the inhabitants especially fitted them to promote the wet- 
fare of a great republic, the ftderal system renden their 
task less difficult The coofbdenition of all thé American 
States presents none of the ordinary inconveniences r^ 
suiting from great agglomerations of men. The Union is 
a great republic in extent, but the paucity of objects for 
which its government acts assimilates it to a small State. 
Its acts are important, but they are rare. As the sov- 
ereignty of t)ie Union is limited and incomplete, its exer&gt; 
ciso is not dangerous to liberty ; for it does not excite those 
insatiable desires of fame and power which have proved so 
fatal to great republics. As there is no common centre to 
the country, great capital cities, colossal wealth, abject pov- ' 
erty, and sudden revolutions are alike unknown ; and polite 
ical passion, instead of spreading over the land like a fire 
on the prairies, spends its strength against the interests and 
the individual passions of every State. 

Nevertheless, tangible objects and ideas circulate through- 
out the Union as freely as in a country inhabited by one 
people. Notliing chocks the spirit of cnt^^rpri^tc. The 
government invites tlie aid of all who have talents or 
knowledge to serve it. Inside of the frontiers of the 
Union, profound peace prevails, as within tlie heart of 
some great empire ; abroad, it ranks with the most powei^ 
fill nations of the earth : two thousand miles of coast are 
open to the commerce of the world ; and as it holds the 



TUE TEDEBAI, CONSTTTnTIOH. 



keys of a New World, its flag is respected in the mtat 
remote seas. Tlie Union is happy and free aa a small pet^ 
pie, end glorious and strong as a great nation. 



WBT THE FEDERAL SYSTEM IS NOT PRACnCABLB FOK ALL 
NATIONS, AND HOW THE ANOLO-AHEBICANB WESE EN- 
ABLED TO ADOPT IT. 

ETei7 Fedend System ha» inherent Fault» which buBe tbe :tC9bns of the 
Lc^sUtor. — The Federal Sjetem Is complex. — It detnand» a dwij 
Exercise of the latelligence of the Citizens. — Pncdcal Knowledge of 
Oovenunent rommon unongn the American». — RdatiTe WeakiMM of 
the GoTemment of the Union anoCber DefbH inborant Id the Federal 
Systetn. — Tlio Amcricaiu have diminished withoat remedying it. — The 
SoTereignty of llie separate State* apparently weaker, but naiilj Btion^ 
er, than that of the Union. — Why. — Nainial Cause» of Union then 
miut oxiat hetwccn Confederate Nations tmicle the I^lr». — What theso 
Causes arc amongst the Anglo-Ameiiean». — Maine and Georgia, tep*- 
rated by a Distance of a thousand Miles, mora naturally aniled than Noi^ 
tnandy and Brittany. — War the main Peril of Confederation». — Thk 
proved even hy ttio Example of the United States. — The Union hai no 
great Wars to fear. — Why. — Dangen which Eoropeaoa woald inonrif 
they adopted the Federal System of the American!. 

When a legislator succeeds, after many efforts, in exei^ 
cising an Indirect influence upon the destiny of nations, his 
genius is lauded by mankind, whilst, in point of fact, the 
geographical position of the country which he is unable to 
change, a social condition which arose withont his co-oper- 
ation, manners and opinions which he cannot trace to their 
source, and an origin with which he is unacquainted, exer^ 
cise so irresistible an influence over the courses of society, 
that he is himself borne away by the current after an inef- 
fectual resistance. Like tlie navigator, he may direct the 
veesel which bears him, but he can neitlier change its 
structure, nor r^se the winds, nor lull the waters which 
swell beneath him. 

I have shown the advantages which the Americans de&gt; 



210 DSKOCKAOT IN JJOUOA. 

live from thdr Federal Bystem ; it rcmaiiu fbr me to pomt 
ont the circumstances Tirhidi enaUed diem to adc^t it, u 
its benefits camiot be enjoyed by all n&amp;tians. The tea- 
dental defects of the federal syitem which ori^^nata in the 
laws may be corrected by the skill of the le^alator, bat 
there are e\-i]s inher^it in the lystem which cannot be 
remedied by any efibrt. The people mnst therefore find in 
themselves the strength necessary to bear the natural îm- 
perfections of their eoTemment. . 

The moat prominent evil of all federal systems is Hue 
complicated nature of the means th^ employ. Two sor- 
ereignties are Becessaiify in presence of each o&amp;er. The 
legislator may simplify and equalize, as &amp;r as possible, the 
action of these two sovereignties, by limiting each of them 
to a sphere of authority accurately defined ; but he cannot 
combine them into one, or prevent them from coming into 
collision at certain points. The federal system, therefore, 
rests upon a theory which is complicated, at the best, and 
which demands the daily exercise of a considerable share 
of discretion on the part of those it governs. 

Â proposition must be plain, to be adopted by tlie imdei&gt;- 
standing of a pco])1e. A false notion wliich is clear and 
precise will always have more power in the world than a 
true principle which is obsciire or involved. Hence it 
happens that parties, which are like small communities in 
the heart of the nation, invariably adopt some principle or 
name as a symbol, wliich very inadequately represents the 
end they have in view and tlie means which thoy employ, 
but without which they could neither act nor subsist. The 
governments which are founded upon a single principle or 
a single feeling, which b easily defined, are perhaps not 
the best, but they are unquestionably the strongost and the 
most durable in the world. 

In examining the Constitution of the United States, 
which is the most perfect federal constitution that ever 



THE FEDEEAL COKSnTUTIOH. Stl 

ezÎBted, one is startled at the variety of inibrmatioii and 
the amount of discernment whicli it presupposes in the 
people whom it is meant to govern. The government of 
the Union depends almost entirely upon legal actions ; the 
Union is an ideal nation, which exists, bo to speak, only in 
the mind, and whose limits and extent can only be dis- 
cemed by the understanding. 

After the general theory is comprehended, many difBcni- 
ties remain to be solved in its application ; for the sovep- 
àgnty of the Union is bo involved in that of the States, 
that it is impossible to distinguish its boundaries at the first 
^ance. The whole structure of the government is arti- 
ficial and conventional ; and it would be ill adapted to a 
people which has not been long accustomed to conduct its 
own afiairs, or to one in which the science of politics has 
not descended to the humblest classes of society. I have 
never been more struck by the good sense and the practical 
judgment of tlie Americans, than in the manner in which 
they elude the numberless difficulties resulting ô-om their 
Federal Constitution. I scarcely ever met with a plain 
American citizen who could not distinguish with surprising 
fecility the obligations created by the laws of Congress 
from those created by the laws of his own State, and who, 
after having discriminated between the matters which 
come under the cognizance of the Union and those which 
the local legislature is competent to regulate, could not 
point out the exact limit of the separate jurisdictions of 
the Federal courts and the tribunals of the State. 

The Constitution &lt;rf the United States resembles those 
fine creations of human industry which insure wealth and 
renown to their inventors, but which are profitless in other 
hands. This truth is exemplified by the condition of Mex- 
ico at the present time. The Mexicans were desirous of 
establishing a fe&lt;leral system, and they t;ook the Federal 
Constitntion of their neighbors, the Anglo-Americans, as 



states and tliat of the Union perpetuallj 
R'siitrctive privileges, and came into colli: 
[iresunt duy Mexico is altcrnaiely tlie vi. 
and tlie slave of military despotism. 

The second and most fatal of all defects. 
I believe to be inherent in the federal sy 
ative weakness of the govemmeat of Ûi 
principle upon which all confederations r 
diiided sovereignty. Legislators may rend 
less perceptible, they may even conceal it 
the puhlic eye, but they cannot present it 
wad a divided must always be weaker than 
ereignty. The remarks made on the Con 
United States have shown with what skill 
while restraining the power of tlie Union 
row limita of a federal government, have g 
blance, and to a certain extent the force, 
government. By this means, the legislator 
have diminished the natural danger of con; 
have not entirely obviated it. 

The American government, it is said, dc 
itself to the Slat«a, but transmits its injunct 
the citizens, and compels them by isolation 1 



THE FEDERAI CONSTITUTION. 21^ 

r by the authority of the Union, the Federal govern- 
ment would vainly attempt to subdue them individually ; 
tfaey would instinctively unite in a common defence, and 
would find an organization already prepared for them in 
the sovereignty which their State is allowed to enjoy. Fio- 
tion would give way to reality, and an organized portion of 
the nation might then contest the central authority. 

The same observation holds good with regard to the 
Federal jurisdiction. If the courts of the Union violated 
an important law of a State in a private case, the real, 
though not the apparent contest, would be between the 
aggrieved State represented by a citizen, and the Union 
r«5)resented by its courts of justice.* 

He would have but a partial knowledge of the world 
who should imagine that it is possible, by the aid of legal 
fictions, to prevent men â^m finding out and employing 
those means of gratifying their passions which have been 
left open to them. The American le^latora, thougli they 
have rendered a. collision between the two sovereignties 
less probable, have not destroyed the causes of such a mis- 
fortune. It may even be afSrmed, that, in case of such a 
collision, they have not been able to insure the victory of 
the Federal element in a case of this kind. The Union !■ 
possessed of money and troops, but the States have kept 

* For initmiiM, the Udiod jtomtaet hj Ébe ConstiCation the right of tell- 
ing nnoccniûod lands for its own profit Snppoie that the Stato of Ohio 
■hoald cUicn the same right in behalf of certain tracts Ijiog within iti 
own bouadaries, upon the plea that the ConititaCion refera to those lands 
alone which do not belong to the jnrisdictioD of usj panicaler Stalo, and 
Eonscqaendj should choose to dispose of them itself. The litigation would 
be carried on, it is true, in the names of the purchasera from the State at 
Ohio and the purchasers from the Union, and not in the names of Otuo 
and the Umon. But what would become of this legal fiction, if the Fed- 
en) purchaser was conflrmod in his right by die cotirts of the Union, 
whilst the other competitor was ordered to retain possession 1^ the tribnoali 
of the Btale of Ohio 1 



tu IffiHOOSACT Of AMKBiaA. 

die affections and the prejndîcea of the pécule. Tba wn^ 
éràgnty of the Union is an abatract being, which is om* 
nected with but few external olgects ; the soTereignly of 
the States is perceptible b^ the senses, easily understood, 
and constantly active. The former is of recent creation, 
the latter b coeval with the people itself. The aovereigntf 
of the Union is factidoua, that of tlie States is natural and 
self-^stent, without effort, like the authority of a parent. 
The sovereignty of the nation affects a few of the chief 
interestâ of socie^ ; it represents an immense but remote 
country, a vague and ill-defined sentiment. The authority 
of the States controls every individual citizen at every 
hour and in all circumstances ; it protects his properly, his 
freedom, and his life ; it affects at every moment his well- 
being or his misery. When we recollect the traditions, 
the customs, the prejudices of local and Êimiliar attachment 
with which it is connected, we cannot doubt tlie superiority 
of a power wliich rests on the instinct of patriotism so nat- 
ural to the human heart. 

Since legislators cannot prevent such dangerous collis- 
ions as occur between the two sovereignties which coexist 
in the federal system, their first object must be, not only 
to dissuade the confederate states from warfare, but to 
encourage such dispositions as lead to peace. Hence it is 
that the federal compact cannot be lasting unless there 
exist in the communities which are leagued togetlier a 
certain number of inducements to union which render tlicir 
common dependence agreeable, and the task of the govern- 
ment light. The federal system cannot succeed mthout 
the presence of favorable circumstances added to the in- 
fluence of goo&lt;I laws. All tlie nations wliich have ever 
formed a confederation have been held together by some 
common interests, which served as the intellectual ties of 
association. 

But men have sentiments and prindples, as well as mate- 



TH£ FSDEEAL CONSTITUTIOM. 215 

rial interests. A certain unifonnity of civilization is not 
lees necessary to the durability of a confedcratioii, than • 
uniformity of interests in the states which compose it. In 
Switzerland, the diâerence between the civilization of the 
Canton of Uri and that of the Canton of Vaud is like the 
difference between the fifteenth and the nineteenth centi&gt; 
ries ; therefore, properly speaking, Switzerland has never 
had a federal government. The union between these two 
Cantons subsists only upon the map ; and this would soon 
be perceived if an attempt were made by a central author- 
ity to prescribe the same laws to the whole territory. 

The circumstance which makes it easy to maintain a 
Federal government in America is, that the States not only 
have similar interests, a common origin, and a common 
language, but that tliey are also arrived at the same stagt3 
of civilization ; which almost always renders a union fea- 
sible. I do not know of any European nation, however 
small, which does not present less uniformity in its didbrent 
provinces than the American people, which occupies a ter- 
ritory as extensive as one half of Europe. The distance 
from Maine to Georgia is about one thousand miles ; but 
the difference between the civilization of Maine and that of 
Georgia is slighter than the difference between the habits 
of Normandy and those of Brittany. Maine and Georgia, 
which are placed at the opposite extremities of a great 
empire, have therefore more real inducements to form a 
confe&lt;leration than Normandy and Brittany, which ar&amp; 
separated only by a brook. 

The geographical position of the country increased the 
&amp;cilities which the American le^lators derived fi^m the 
manners and customs of the inhabitants ; and it is to this 
circumstance that the adoption and tlie maintenance of the 
Federal system are mainly attributable. 

The most important occurrence in the life of a nation 
is the breaking out of a war. In war, a people act as one 



216 fiEKOoucT nr jumnu. 



1 natiom, m iaftuce of Ûaùiyerj «&gt;• 
istence. The skill of the govamment, the good sense «f 
the coDunumty, and the natoral fimdneea vhicb men il&gt; 
most always entertain lor thmr coontiy, may be enongh, M 
long as tlic only object ia to mniTitoin peace in the interior 
of the state, and to &amp;vor its internal prosperity ; but Ûat 
the nation may carry on a great war, the people most make 
more numcroas and painful sacrifices ; and to suppose that 
a great number of men will, of their own aoxird, submit 
to these exigencies, is to betray an ignorance of human 
nature. All tlie naitions which have been obliged to sos- 
tain a long and serious warfiue hare consequently been led 
to augment the power of their government. Those who 
have not succeeded in this attempt have been subjugated. 
A long war almost always reduces nations to the wretched 
alternative of being abandoned to ruin by defeat, or to de&amp;- 
potism by success. War tlierefore renders the weakness 
of a government most apparent and most alarming ; and 
I liave shown that the inherent defect of federal govern- 
ments is that of being weak. 

The federal system not only haa no centralized adminis- 
timtion, and notliing which resembles one, but the central 
government itself is imperfectly organized, wliicli is always 
a great cause of weakness wlien tlie nation is opposed to 
other countries which are themselves governed by a single 
authority. In the Federal Constitution of the United 
States, where the central government has more real force 
than in any other confederation, tliis evil is still extremely 
sensible. A single example will illustrate the case. 

The Constitution confers upon Congress the right of 
" calling forth the militia to execute the laws of the Union, 
suppress insurrections, and repel invasions " ; and another 
article declares that the President of the United States is 
the commander-in-chief of the militia. In the war of 
1S12, the President ordered the militia of the Northern 



THE FEDERAL OOHSTTnmOIL 217 

States to mEirch to the frontieis; bnt Connecticat and 
Maasacliasetts, whose interests were impaired by the war, 
refused to obey the commaod. They ai^ed that the Coi^ 
Btitutign authorizes the Federal government to call forth 
the militia in case of itmirrection or invasion ; but in the 
present instance, there was neither invasion nor insurreo 
don. .They added, that the same Conadtation which con- 
ferred upon the Union the right of calling the militia into 
active service, reserved to the States that of naming the . 
officers ; and consequently (as they nnderstood the clause} 
no officer of the Union had any right to command the 
militia, even during war, except the President in person : 
and in this case, they were ordered to join an army com- 
manded by another individual. These absurd and perni- 
cious doctrines received the sanction not only of the Gov- 
ernors and the legislative bodies, but also of the courts 
of justice in both States ; and tiie Federal government 
was constrained to raise elsewhere the troops which it re- 
quired.* 

How happens it, then, that the American Union, with 
all the relative perfection of its laws, is ^ot dissolved by 
the occurrence of a great war ? It is because it has do 
great wars to fear. Placed in the centre of an immense 
continent, which offers a boundless field for human indus- 
try, the Union is almost as much insulated from the worid 
as if all its &amp;ontiers were girt l^ the ocean. Canada con- 

&lt; Kent's CoTamentariM, Vol. I. p. 244. I bate selected an exampla 
which relates to a time long aftar the promalgation of the present Coostitii- 
tioD. If 1 had gone back to the dajs of the CoofcdenitioD, I might han 
given still more striking iostancca. The whole natioD was at that time in a 
slate of entliusiaslic excitement; the Rerolntion was represented by a man 
who was the idol of the people; bnt M that very period, Congrees had, ts 
say the truth, no resaorcea at all «t its diapoeaL Troops and supplies weif 
peipetoally wanting. The best-derised projects &amp;lled in the exocntion, and 
the Union, constantly on the veige of destruction, was saved by the weik- 
neM of its enemies &amp;r mora tluui by Iti own stienffth. 
10 



218 DEMOCEACY IN AMERICA. 

iaim onl^ u million of inliabîUmtâ, and its population is di- 
vided into two inimical nations. The rigor of the climata 
limits the extension of ita territory, and shuta up its porta 
during the six months of winter. From Canada to the 
Gulf of Mexico a few gav'ago tribes are to be met with, 
which retire, perisliing in their retrt-'at, boforo six tliousand 
soldiers. To tlie south, tlie Union has a point of contact 
with the empire of Mexico ; and it is thence that serious 
bostiliUes may one day be expected to arise. But for a 
long while to come, the unci\Tlized state of the Mexicm 
people, the depravity of their morals, and their extreme 
poverty, will prevent that country trom ranking high 
amongst nations. As for tlie powers of Europe, they are - 
too distant to be formidable.* 

The great advantage of the United States does not, then, 
consist in a Federal Constitution which allows tliem to 
cany on great wars, but in a geographical position which 
renders such wars extremely improbable. 

No one can be more inclined than I am to appreciate the 
advantages of the Federal system, which I hold to be one 
of the combinations most favorable to the prosperity and 
freedom of man. I envy the lot of those nations which 
have been able to adopt it ; but I cannot believe that any 
confederate people could nuuntain a long or an equal coi^ 
test with a nation of similar strength in which the gov- 
ernment is centralized. Â people wliich should divide its 
sovereignty into fractional parts, in the presence of the 
great military monarchies of Europe, would, in my opin- 
ion, by that very act abdicate its power, and perhaps ita 
existence and its name. But such is the admirable posi- 
tion of the New World, that man has no other enemy than 
himself ; and that, in order to be happy and to be &amp;ee, ha 
has only to determine that he will be so. 

• 6m Appendix 0. 



THE PEOPLE GOVEBN IH THE UNITED STATES. 219 



CHAPTER IX. 

THUS &amp;r, I have examined the institalions of the 
United States ; I have passed their le^slation in r^ 
view, and have described the present forms of political 
society in that countiy. But above these instatudons, and 
beyond all these characteristic forms, there is a sovereign 
power — that of the people — which may destroy or mod- 
ify them at it^ pieasure. It remaina to he sliown in what 
manner this power, superior to the laws, acts ; what are its 
instincts and its passions, what tlie secret springs which 
retard, accelerate, or direct ita irresistible course, what the 
effects of its unbounded authority, and what the destiny 
which is reserved for it. 



In America, the people appoint the legislative and the 
executive power, and fiiraish the jurors who punbh all in- 
fractions of the laws. The institutions are democratic, not 
only in their principle, but in all their consequences ; and 
the people elect their representatives direcUy, and for the 
most part annually, in order to insure tlieir dependence. 
The people are, tlierefore, the real directing power; and 
although the form of government is representative, it IB 
evident that the opinions, the prejudices, the interests, and 
even the passions of the people are liindured by no pemur- 
nent obstacles from exerciûng a perpetual influence on 




tliQ daSy conduct of aâuïrs. In the United States, the 
majority governs in the name of the people, as is the caae 
in all countries in which the people are supreme. This 
majority is principally composed of peaceable citizens, who, 
either by inchnntion or by interest, sincerely wish tlie wel- 
fare of their country. But they are surrounded by the 
incessant agitation of parties, who attempt to gain their 
co-operation and support. 



PABTIXS IN THE UinTED STATES. 



CHAPTER X. 

PARTIES IN THE DNTTED STATES. 

GiMt I^jiinctioD to be nude betweeo Parties. — Pwties which are to each 
□tlier u rival Nations. — Parties properij so called. — IKflëniaM be- 
tween gre« snd BDuU pMti&lt;«. — Epochs which produce them. — Their 
Characteristics. — America has had great Parties. — The/ are extinct. — 

Federalists. — Republicans. — Defeat of the Federalists. — Difficaltj of 
creating Parties in the United States, — What is done with this Inten- 
tion. — Arialocratic or Democratic Character to be met with in all Par. 
ties. — Struggle of General Jackson against the Bank. 

AGREAT distinction mnst be made between parties. 
Some countries are so large that the different pop- 
olations which inhabit them, although united under the 
same government, have contradictory interests ; and they 
may consequently be in a perpetual state of opposition. 
In this case, the different fractions of the people may more ^..v 
properly be considered as istinct nations than as mere " 
parties ; and if a civil war breaks ont, the struggle is car- 
ried on by rival states rather than by tactions in the same 
state. 

But when the citizens entertain different opinions upon 
subjects which affect the whole ' country alike, — such, for 
instance, as the principles upon which the government a 
to be conducted, — then distinctions arise which may cor^ 
rectly he styled parties. Parties are a necessary evil in j 
&amp;ee governments ; but they have not at all times tlie same : 
character and the same propensities. \ 

At certùn periods, a nation may be oppressed hj such 



{nmpportalile evils bb to coiuniTe the design of effecting a 
total change in theàr political conatitation ; it odier tmui, 
the mischief lies still deeper, «nd the existence of socie^ 
itself is endangered. Such are the times of great lerdo- 
tions and of great parties. But between these epodu of 
misery and coiifusi(Hi there are periods during which hu- 
man society seems to rest, and mankind to take Innath. - 
Tliis pause is, indeed, only apparent ; for time does not stop 
its course for natioiu any more than for men ; they are aU 
advancing every day towards a goal with which they are 
unacquainted. We ima^^ne them to be stationary only 
when their progress escapes onr observatiai, as men who 
are going at a foot-pace seem to be standing stiU to those 
who run- 
But however this may be, there are certain epoclis at 
which the changes that take place in the social and politi- 
cal constitution of nations are so slow and insensible, that 
men imagine tliej have reached a final state ; and the 
human mind, believing itself to be firmly based upon sure 
foundations, does not extend its researches beyond a cer- 
tain horizon. These are tlie times of small parties and of 
rtrigue. 
The political parties which I style great are those which 
• chng to principles rather tlian to tlieir consequences ; to 
^general, and not to special cases ; to ideas, and not to 
/men. Tliese parties are usually distinguished by nobler 
features, more generous passions, more genuine convic- 
tions, and a more bold and open conduct, than the others. 
In them, private interest, which always plaj-s the chief 
part in political passions, is more studiously veiled under 
the pretext of tlie public good ; and it may even be some- 
times concealed from the eyes of tlie very persons whom it 
excites and impels. 

Minor parties, on the other hand, are generally deficient 
in political good faith. As they are not sustained or djgni- 



PABTIES IK THE tnOTED STATES. z2S 

fied l^ I0A7 purposes, they ostensibly display the selfish- 
ness of their character in their actions. They glow with 
a factitious zeal ; their language is vehement ; but their 
conduct is timid and irresolute. The means which th^ 
employ are as wretched as the end at which they aim. 
Hence it happens, that, when a calm state succeeds a 
violent revolution, great men se«n suddenly to disappear, 
and the powers of the human mind to lie concealed. So- 
ciety is convulsed by great parties, it is only agitated by 
minor ones ; it is torn by the former, by the latter it is 
degraded ; and if the 6rst sometimes save it by a salutary 
perturbation, the last invariably disturb it to no good end. 

America has had great parties, but has them no longer; 
and if hor happiness is thereby consiJerably increased, her 
morality has suffered. When the war of independence 
was terminated, and the foundations of the new govern- 
ment were to be laid down, the nation was divided be- 
tween two opinions, — two opinions which are as old aa 
the world, and which are perpetually to be met with, under 
different forms and various names, in all free communities, 
— the one tending to limit, the other to extend indefinitely, 
the power of the people. The conflict between these two 
opinions never assumed that degree of violence in America 
which it lias frequently displayed elsewhere. Both parties 
of the Americans were agreed upon the most essential 
points ; and neither of them had to destroy an old consti- 
tution, or to overthrow the structure of society, in order to 
triumph. In neither of them, consequently, were a great 
number of private interests affected by success or defeat : 
but moral principles of a high order, such as tlie love of 
equality and of independence, were concerned in the 
struggle, and these sufficed to kindle violent passions. 

The party which desired to limit the power of the 
people, endeavored to apply its doctrines more especially 
to the Constitution of the Union, whence it derived ita 



'J^ DKMOCSACT IN AMkHOA. 

-name of Feâerai. The olher party, which affected to be 
exclusively attached to the cause of liberty, took that rf 
Republican. America m the land of democracy, and the 
Federalists, therefore, were always in a minority ; but they 
reckoned on their side almost all the gi-cat men whom the 
war of independence liad pnxlucfKl, and their moral power 
*as ^ery considerable. Their cause was, moreover, favored 
by circumstances. The rain of the first Confederation had 
impressed the people mth a dread of anarchy, and the 
Federalists profited by this transient disposition of the mul- 
titude. For ten or twelve years, they were at the head of 
aflRnirs, and they were able to apply some, though not all, 
of their principles ; for the hostile current was becoming 
from day to day too violent to be checked. In 1801, ihè 
Repubhcans got possession of the government: Thomas 
Jefferson was elected President ; and he increased the in- 
fluence of their party by the weight of his great name, the 
brilliancy of his talenta, and his immense popularity. 

The meaiK by which the Federalists had maintained 
their position were artificial, and their resources were tem- 
porary : it was by the virtues or the talents of their leaders, 
AB well as by fortunate circumstances, that they had risen 
to power. ^Vhen the Republicans attained that station in 
their turn, their opponents were overwhelmed by utter 
defeat. Ji.T\ immense majority declared itself against the 
retiring party, and the Federalists found themselves in so 
small a minority, that they at once despaired of fiiture suc- 
cess. From that moment, the Repubfican or Democratic 
party has proceeded from conquest to conquest, until it has 
acquired absolute supremacy in the country. The Fed- 
eralists, perceiving that they were vanquished without re- 
source, and isolated in the midst of the nation, fell into two 
^visions, of which one joined the victorious Republicans, 
«^ the other laid down their banners and changed their 
MBLB. Many years have elapsed since they wholly ceased 
'st as a party. 



PARTIES IN THE tnOTBD STATES. W6 

The accession of the Fedendiato to power was, ia my 
opinion, one of the most fortunate incidents which accon^Jj 
panied the formation of the great American Union : thej^ 
resisted the inevitable propensities of their country anif 
their age. But whether their theories were good or bad, 
they had the fault of being inapplicable, as a whole, to the 
society which they wished to govern, and that wluch 
occurred under the auspices of Jeflerson must therefore 
have taken place sooner or later. But their govemmentl 
at least gave the new republic time to acquire a certami 
atability, and aûerwards to support without inconveniencej 
the rapid growtli of the veiy doctrines which they had 
combated. A considerable number of their principles, 
moreover, were embodied at last in the political creed of 
their opponents ; and the Federal Constitution, which sub- 
sists at the present day, is a lasting monument of thdr 
patriotism and their wisdom. 

Cheat political parties, then, are not to be met with in 
the United States at the present time. Parties, indeed, 
may be found which tlireaten the future of the Union; 
but tliere are none wliich seem to contest the present form 
of government, or the present course of society. The 
parties by which the Union is menaced do not rest upon 
principles, but upon material interests. These interests 
«onstitute, in the difFerent provinces of so vast an empire, 
rival nations rather than parties. Thus, upon a recent 
occasion [1832], the North contended for the system of 
c(»nmercial prohibition, and the South took up arms in 
&amp;vor of free trade, simply because the North is a manulàc- 
turing and the South an agricultural community ; and the 
restrictive system which was profitable to tlie one, was 
prejudicial to the other. 

Id the absence of great parties, the United States swaim 
with lesser controversies ; and public opinion is divided 
into a thousand minute shades &lt;^ difference upon quutions 



Wo DEMOCRACT IN AUEBIOA, 

of detnil. The pains which are taken to create parties are 
inconceivable, and at the present day it is no easy task. 
In tJie United States, there is no religious animosity, bo- 
cause all religion is respe/^tccl, and no sect is predominant j 
there is no jealousy of rank, beosmsc the pi:ii|Ji.' are every- 
tlung, and none can contât their aothcMity ; lastly, then fa 
no pablic misery to serve u a means of a^tatitm, Iwcaan 
the physical position &lt;tf the conntry opens so wide ft fidd 
to industry, that man onfy needs to be let alone to be tiàê 
to accomplish prodi^ee. NerertlieleBS, ambidoiu nun irfll 
succeed in creating parties, since it is difficult to tgeet ■ 
person from anthority uptm the mere ground that his plaoa 
is coveted by others. AU the skill of the acton in the 
political world lies in the art of creating parties. A pdit- 
ical aspirant in the United States begins by discerning his 
own interest, and discovering those other interests which 
may be collected around, and amalgamated with it. He 
then contrives to find out some doctrine or principle which 
may suit the purposes of this new association, and which 
he adopts in order to bring forward his party and secure its 
popularity : just as the imprimatur of the king was in for- 
mer days printed upon the title-page of a volume, and was 
thus incorporated with a book to which it in no wise he- 
{longed. This being done, the new party is ushered into 
Ithe poUtical world. 

All the domestic controversies of the Americans at first 
appear to a stranger to be incomprehensible or puerile, and 
he is at a loss whether to pity a people who take such ar- 
rant trifles in good earnest, or to envy that happiness which 
enables a community to discuss them. But when he comes 
to study the secret propensities which govern the facUons 
of America, he easily perceives that the greater part of 
thero are more or less connected with one or the other of 
those two great divisions which have always existed in Iree 
oommunities. The deeper we penetrate into the inmost 



PABTIES m THE T^TITED STATES. 2^ 

flion^t of these parties, the more do we perceive that thei'l 
object of the one is to limit, and that of the other to ex-J 
tend, the authori^ of the people. I do not assert that thelj 
ostensible purpose, or even that the secret aim, of Amer- 
ican parties is to promote the irale of aristocracy or de- 
mocracy in the country ; but I afBnn that aristocratic or 
democratic passions may easily be detected at the bottom 
of all parties, and that, although they escape a superficial 
observation, they are the main point and sonl of every fec- 
tion in the United States. 

To quote a recent example: — when President Jackson 
attacked the Bank, the country was excited, and parti» 
were formed; the well-informed classes rallied round the 
Bank, the common people round the President. But it 
must not be ima^ned that the people had formed a rational 
opinion upon a question which' offers so many difficulties to 
the most experienced statesmen. By no means. The 
Bank is a great establishment, which has an independent 
existence ; and the people, accustomed to make and un- 
make whatsoever they please, are startled to meet with this 
obstacle to their authority. In the midst of the perpetual 
fluctuation of society, the community is irritated by so 
permanent an institution, and is led to attack it, in order 
to see whether it can be shaken, like everything else. 



SecnC OppoiiCioD of wealthj IndiTidiuli to DenHXTBCj. — Their Betire- 
rnent — Tlieir TmW for excldrivs Pteunrcs and for Loxnry at Home. 
— Tbdr SimpUdtj abroad. — Thdr aOected Condescension lowaidi tlM 

It sometimes happens, in a people amongst whom variom 
opinions prevail, that the balance of parties is lost, and one 
of than obtains an irrenstible preponderance, orerpowen 



« nSMOCRACT IN AMERICA, 

■U utKitarli"», annihilates its oppononts, and appropriatea aO 
■w ivsourcvs of society to its own use. The Muiqtùsheâ 
foi(&gt;ttir of sut'ci-as, hide llieir heads, and are aileut. The 
&gt;atu&gt;ii seems to be governed by a single principla, unive&gt;- 
m1 stitlne3.&lt;i prevails, and the prevailing party assumes tlie 
CTwiit of Iwving restored peace and unanimity to Ui© coun- 
tey. But under this apparent unanimity still exist pro- 
feuiid differeiifes of opinion, and real opposition. 

This is what occurred in America ; when tlie iliaiiocrEtic 
^rty got the upper hand, it took excluaive poMesAion of 
the conduct of afStijs, and from that time, the laws and the 
Customs of society have been adapted to its caprices. At 
the present day, tho more affluent classes of society have 
tio itifluencu in poliiicnl rttïiùrs ; and »e«Itl., fur from con- 
ftrring a right, is rather a cause of unpopularity than a 
means of attaining power. The rich abandon the lists, 
through unwillingness to contend, and frequently to con- 
tend in vain, against the poorer classes of their féllow-cîti- 
KDs. As they cannot occupy in public a position équiva- 
lent to what they hold in private Ufe, tliey abandon the 
fi&gt;rmer, and ^ve themselves up to the latter ; and they 
oonstitute a private society in the state, which has its own 
tastes and pleasures. They submit to this state of things 
as an irremediable evil, but they are careful not to show 
bat they are galled by its continuance ; one often hears 
hem laud the advantages of a repubhean government and 
lemocratie institutions when they are in public. Next to 
■ating their enemies, men are most inclined to flatter them. 
Mark, for instance, that opulent citizen, who is as anx- 
D(ia as a Jew of the Middle Ages to conceal his wealth. 
His dress is plain, his demeanor unassuming ; but the 'in- 
srior of his dwelling glitters with luxury, and none but a 
i)w chosen guests, whom he haughtily styles his equals, are 
■flowed to penetrate into this sanctuary. No European 
wble is more exclusive in his pleasure^ or more jealous of 



PABTIES m T^ CmTSD STATES. SSt 

the smalleat advantages which a privileged station conjèn. 
But the same individual crosses the city to reach a dark 
coundag-hoose in the centre of trafBc, where every one 
may accost him who pleases. If he meets his cobbler 
upon the way, they stop and converse ; the two citizens 
discuss the aHàirs of the state, &amp;nd shake hands before 
tiey part. 

But beneath this aitiâcial enthusiasm, and these obsequial 
ous attentions to the preponderating power, it is easy toj 
perceive that the rich have a hearty dislike of the demo-l 
cratic institutions of their country. The people form ft' 
power which they at once fear and despise. If the mal- 
administration of the democracy ever brings about a revo- 
lutionary crisis, and monarchical institutions ever become 
practicable in the United States, Uie truth of what I ad- 
vance will become obvious. 

The two chief weapons which parties use in order to ob- U 
tain success are the wewtpaper» and public attocialioni. ' 



DraiOCRACT IN AHEBIUA. 



CHAPTER XI. 

UBEBTT OF THE PBESS m THE CNITED STATES. 

Difficulty of restrainÎDg the Libert; of the Preaa. — Puticnlar B«MOiif 
which Mme Nstioiu hne lot cheriahiog thij Ltber^. — The Liberty 
of (he Pron • meeutxj Coueqnence of the SorerdgDtj of the Ttojik 
U ic is nnderalood in America. — Violeot Luigoage of tbo Poriodkd 
Press JD tbo United States. — The Periodical Press has some pccuJiat 
Instincts, proved b; the Example of the United States. — Opinion of 
the Americans npon the Judicial RcprcssioD of the Abnsee of the Preia. 
— Wh/ the Press is less powerful in America than in Prance. 

THE influence of the liberty of the press does not afièct 
political opinions alone, but exten&lt;Is to all the opinions 
of men, and modifîcâ customs as v&gt;-g]1 as laws. In another 
part of tliiâ work, I shall attempt to determine the degree 
of influence wliich the liberty of the press lias exercised 
upon civil society in the United States, and to point out 
the direction which it has given to the ideas, as well as the 
tone which it has imparted to the character and the feel- 
ings, of the Anglo-Americana. At present, I purpose only 
to examine tlio effects produced by the Uberty of the press 
in the political world. 

I confess that I do not entertain that firm and complete 
attachment to the liberty of the press which is wont to be 
excited by things that are supremely good in their very 
■ nature. I approve of it from a consideration more of the 
tivila it prevents, than of the advantages it insures. 

If any one could point out an intermediate and yet a 
tenable position between the complete independence and 
the entire Eer\-itude of opinion, I should, perhaps, be in- 



UBEBTT OF THE PRESS m THE UNITED STATES. 231 

elined to adopt it ; but the difficulty is, to diwover this in- 
termediate position. Intending to correct the licentiousaees 
of the press, and to restore the use of orderly language, 
you first try the offender by a jury ; bnt if the jury acquits 
him, the opinion which was that of a single individual be- 
comes the opinion of the whole countiy. Too much and 
too little lias therefore been done;, go &amp;rther, then. Ton 
bring the delinquent before permanent ma^stratea ; but 
even here, the cause must be heard before it can be decid- 
ed J and the very principles which no book would have 
ventured to avow are blazoned forth in the pleadings, and 
what was obscurely hinted at in a single composition is 
thus repeated in a multitude of other publications. The 
language is only the expression, and (if I may so speak) 
the body, of the thought, but it is not the thought itself 
Tribunals may condemn the body, but the sense, the spirit, 
of the work is too subtile for tlieir authority. Too much 
has still been done to recede, too little to attain your end ; 
you must go still farther. Establish a censorship of the 
press. But the tongue of the public speaker will still 
make itself heard, and your purpose is not yet accom- 
plished ; you liave only increased the mischief. Thought 
is not, like physical strength, dependent upon the number 
of its agents ; nor can authors be counted like the troops 
which compose an army. On the contrary, tlie authority 
of a prineijile is often mcreased by the small number o£ 
men by whom it is expressed. The words of one strong- 
minded man, addressed to the passions of a listening assem- 
bly, have more power than the vociferations of a thousand 
orators ; and if it be allowed to speak freely in any one 
public place, the consequence h the same as if free speak- 
ing was allowed in every village. The hberty of speech 
must therefore be destroyed, as well as the liberty of the 
press. And now you have succeeded, everybody is r&amp;- 
duced to silence. But your object was to repress the 



SSS DEUOCRACr IN AUXKICA. 

abuses of liljprty, and you are brought to tho feet of 
despot. You bave been ]&lt;s\ iruin tJie extreme of indepen- 
dence to tbe extreme of aenHtnde, without finding a single 
t«nab1e position on tbe way at which you could stop. 

There are ctTlain nations which have peculiar reasons 
for cberislJng tho liberty of tbe jiress, independently of 
the genenJ motives which I have just poinled out. For 
ceiluin cuiiutrii's which profess to ht? free, every individual. 
agent of the government a»y violate the Uws witli 
nity, since tbe constitatîon doe* not give to thtne wbo MRfrj- 
injured a right of complaint be£H« the coorts of jartieBil 
In this case, the liberty of the jh^m îb not merdy «te vt - 
the guaranties, but it is the only gnaranty, of thdr libM^c^ 
and security which the citizens possess. If tbe nders of 
these nations proposed to abolish the independence of the 
press, the whole people might answer, Give us tbe right 
of prosecuting your offences before the ordinary tribunals, 
and perhaps we may then waive our right of appeal to 
the tribunal of public opinion. 

In countries where tbe doctrine of the sovereignty of the 
people ostensibly prevails, the censorship of the press is not 
, only dangerous, but absurd. When the right of every cid- 
i \ zen to a share in the government of society is acknowl- 
1 .edged, every one must be presumed to be able to choose 
Detween the various opinions of his contemporaries, and to 
appreciate the different fects from which inferences may be 
drawn. The sovereignty of the people and tbe Uisxty:.^ 
the press may therefore be regarded as correlative ; just as 
the censorship of tlie press and universal suffrage are two 
thin^ which are irreconcilably opposed, and which cannot 
long be retained among the institutions of the same people. 
Not a single individual of tbe [thirty] millions who inhabit 
the United States has, as yet, dared to propose any restric- 
titMis on the liberty of tbe press. The first newspaper 
over which I cast my eyes, upon my arrival in America, 
contained the following article : — ■ 



i 



UBERTT OF THE FBE5S tS TEE DKITED BTATES. 2S8 

"In all this aiTair, the language of JacktoD [tfae President] 
bas been that of a heartlMB despot, ralclj occupied with th« 
preservation of his own authori^. Ambition is hia crime, and 
it will be hU punishment, too: intrigue is his na^re element, and 
intrigue will confound his tricks, and deprive him of bb power. 
He governs bj means of corruptimi, and his immoral practices 
will redound to his shanie and confusion. His conduct in the 
political arena has been that of a shameless and lawless game- 
ster. He succeeded at the time ; but the hour of retribution ap- 
proaches, and he will be obliged to disgorge his winnings, to throw 
aside bis false dice, and to end hig days in some retirement, where 
he maj curse his madness at his leisure ; for repentance is K 
virtue with which his heart is likely to remain forever unac- 
quainted." 

Many persons in France think, that the violence of the 
press originates in the instability of the social state, in oar 
political passions, and the general feeling of uneasiness 
which consequently prevails ; and it is therefore supposed 
that, as soon as society has resumed a certain degree of 
composure, the press will abandon its present vehemence. 
For my own part, I would willingly attribute to these 
causes the extraordinary ascendency which the press has 
acquired over the nation ; but I do not think that they do 
exercise much influence upon il^ language. , The periodi-I 
cal press appears to me to have passions and instincts of j &lt; 
its own, independent of the circumstances in which it isi , 
placed ; and the present condition of America corroborates ' 
this opinion. 

America is perhaps, at this moment, the country of the 
whole world which contûns the fewest germs of revolor 
tJon ; but the press is not less destructive in its principles 
there than in France, and it displays the same violence 
without the same reasons for indignation. In America, as 
in France, it constitutes a singular power, so strangely 
CfMiiposed of mingled good and evil, that liberty could not 



SS4 DBUOOBAOT Dl AMERICA. 

live williout it, and public order caii Iiardly Iki tnaintnoed 
aguinst iu Its power is certainly nitich greater iii Franca 
than 111 lli« United States; tlu&gt;ugh nothing is more nire in 
the latter counliy than to hear of a prosecution being insti- 
tuted nguiiut it. The reason of this is perfectly simple: 
the Americans, liavbig once admitted tlie doctrine of the 
Boven-igiity of the people, apply it with perfect sincerity. 
Bt wna never their intention out of eJcmcnts which ara 
Ichanj^iii^ eveiy day to create institutions which should kiat 
ttbr&lt;j\'er; and there is consequently notliing criminal in aa 
kttack upon the existing laws, provided a ^'iolenl infractioa 
[of tlieui is not intended. They are also of opinion that 
courts of justice are powerless to check the abuses of tho 
press ; and tliat, as the subtilty of human language perpet- 
ually eludes judicial analysis, oti'ciiccs of tliis nature some- 
how escape tlie hand which attempts to seize them. They 
hold tliat, to act with efficacy upon the press, it would be 
necessary to find a tribunal, not only devoted to the exist- 
ing order of things, but capable of surmounting tlie infllH 
ence of public opinion ; a tribunal which should conduct 
tta proceedings without publicity, which should pronounce 
its decrees without assigning its motives, and punish the 
intentions, even more than the language, of a writer. 
Whoever should be able to create and maintain a tribu- 
nal of this kind, would waste his time in prosecuting the 
liberty of the press ; for he would be the absolute master 
of the whole community, and would be as free to rid him- 
self of tlie autliors as of tbeir writings. In this question, 
therefore, there is no medium between servitude and 
license ; in order to enjoy the inestimable benefits which 
the liberty of tlie press insures, it is necessary to submit to 
the inevitable evils which it creates. To expect to acquire 
the former, and to escape the latter, is to cherish one of 
those illusions which commonly mislead nations in thôr 
times of sickness, when, tired with iaction and exhausted 



LIBEBTT OF THE FBESB III THE QNTTED STATES. 235 

hy effort, they attempt to make hostile opinions and con- 
traiy principles coexist npim the same soIL 

The small influence of the American journals is attrib- 
utable to several reasons, amongst which are the following. 

The liberty of writing, like all other liberty, is most for- 
midable when it is a novelty ; for a people who have never 
been accustomed to hear state afî^rs discussed before them, 
place implicit confidence in the first tribune who presents 
himself. The Anglo-Americans have enjoyed this liberty 
ever since tlie foundation of the Colonies ; moreover, the 
press cannot create human passions, however skilfully it 
may kindle them where they esist. In America, political 
hfe is active, varied, even a^tated, but is rarely affected by 
those deep passions which are excited only when material 
interests are impaired: and in the United States, these 
interests are prosperous. A glance at a French and an 
American newspaper is sufhcient t» show the difference 
which exists in this respect between the two nations. In 
France, the space allotted to commercial advertisements is 
vety limited, and the news-intelligence is not considerable ; 
but the essential part of the journal is the discussion of the 
politics of tlie day. In America, three quarters of the 
enormous sheet are filled with advertisements, and the re- 
mainder is frequently occupied by political intelligence or 
trivial anecdotes: it is only from time to time, that one 
finds a comer devoted to passionate discussions, like those 
which the journalists of France every day ^ve to their 
readers. 

It has been demonstrated by observation, and discovered 
l^ the snre instinct even of the pettiest despots, that the 
influence of a power is increased in proportion as its direo 
tion is centralized. In France, the press combines a two- 
fold centralization ; almost all its power is centred in the 
same spot, and, so to speak, in the same hands ; for its 
organs are &amp;r fi^om numerous. The influence of a public 



■2iui Daioou,cT II trnitfii 

^truw thus conititated, upon a weepSiai ludicn, mnat be rfp 
utiut unbounded. It» an aoMKy with whom a fflwmm att 
luuy iti}|^ an occasional trace, but which it is difficult to 
rtwiiit fur any length of time. 

Neither of these kinds of centtslimlioa exista in Ama^ 
ica. The United States have no metropolis; the intel- 
ligence and the power ot the people aie disseminated 
through all the parts of thk vast country, and instead of 
radiating from a common pant, they cross each other in 
every direction ; die Americana have nowhere estahlishad 
any central directicm of opinion, any more than of die 
conduct of afEkirs. This différence arises from local dp* 
cumstances, and not from hnman power; bnt it is owing 
to the laws of the Union that there are no licenses to be 
granted to printers, no securities demanded from editors, as 
in France, and no stamp duty, as in France and England. 
The consequence is, that nothing is easier than to set up a 
newspaper, as a small number of subscribers suffices to de- 
fray the expenses. 

Henco the number of periodical and semi-periodical pub 
lications in the United States is almost incredibly large. 
I The most enlightened Americans attribute the httle in 
;flnence of the press to this excessive dissemination of its 
j power ; and it is an axiom of political science in that coun- 
try, that the only way to neutralize the ctTuct of the public 
journals is to multiply their number. I cannot sec how a 
truth which is so self-evident should not already ha^'e been 
more generally admitted in Europe- I can see why tlie 
persons who hope to bring about revolutions by means of 
the press, should be desirous of confining it to a few power- 
fid organs ; but it is inconceivable that the official partisans 
of the existing slate of things, and tlie natural supporters 
of the taws, should attempt to diminish the influence of the 
press by concentrating its power. The governments of 
Snrope seem to treat the press with the courtesy which 



LIBERTT OF THE PBE38 IN THK OMITED STATES. 28T 

the knights of old showed to their opponents ; having 
found from their own experience that centralization is a 
powerful weapon, they have fiimiahed their enemies with 
it, in order doubtless to have more glory for overcoming 
them. 

In America, there is scarcelj a hamlet which has not ita 
newspaper. It maj readily be imaged, that neither dis- 
cipline nor unity of action can be established among so 
many combatants ; and each one consequently fights under 
his own standard. All the political joumota of the United 
States are, indeed, arrayed on the side of the administration 
or against it ; but they attack and defend it in a thousand 
different ways. They cannot form those great currents &lt;tf 
opinion which sweep away the strongest dikes. This di- 
vision of the influence of the press produces other cons^ 
quences scarcely less remarkable. The &amp;cility with which 
newspapers can be established produces a. multitude of 
them ; but as the competition prevents any considerable ' 
profit, persons of much capacity are rarely led to engage in 
these undertakings. Such is the number of the public 
prints, that, even if they were a source of wealth, writers 
of ability could not be found to direct them all. The jour- 
nalists of tbe United States are generally in a very humble 
position, with a scanty education and a vulgar turn c£ 
mind. The will of tlie majority is .the most general of 
laws, and it establishes certùn habits to which every one 
must tlien conform ; the aggregate of these common habits 
is what is called the class-spirit (etprit de corps) of each 
profession ; thus there is the class-spirit of tlie bar, of the 
court, £c. The class-spirit of the French journalists coi&gt;- 
nsts in a violent, hut frequently an eloquent and lofiy, 
manner of discussing the great interests of the state ; and 
the exceptions to tliis mode of writing are only occasional. 
The cliaracteristics of the American journalist consist in 
an open and coarse appeal to the passions of his readers ; 



ggg WHOOuor n juœric*. 

htf nUndnns principles to unail the duiacten of inâiTil- 
naK to (nek them into piirate life, and diMdoM bD thû 
wwikiM'sscs and vices. 

Nittliinj: can be more deplorable than this abase of tfaa 
nonorx i&gt;t' thought ; I shaD have occasion to p&lt;nnt out hem- 
alVr the inRiience of the nerspapen upon the taste and 
iho iiiiirnlity of the American people ; but my present sab- 
joi'l ovchisivcly concerns the political world. It cannot be 
iloiiiitl, that the political effects of âiis extreme license of 
(ho )ir(&gt;!tit tend indhrectly to the maintenance of public ra' 
dor. 'I'ho individuals who already stand high in the estmm 
vf I hoir iùllow-citizens are airaid to writ« in tlie newqi^ 
yr^n, niid they are thus deprived of the most poweifnl m- 
«Iniuiciit which they can use to excite the posions of the 
fiinllitiidc to their own advantage,* 

Thu personal opinions of the editors have no weight in 
tliii eyes of the public : what they seek in a newspaper is a 
kniiwK'dge of facts, and it is only by altering or distorting 
thiwo fuels, that a journalist can contribute to the support 
&lt;»f his own views. 

But altliough the press is limited to tliese resources, its 
influence in America is immense. It causes political life to 
circxilate through all the parts of that vast territory. It» 
pyc is constantly open to detect tlie secret springs of polit 
ical designs, and to summon the leaders of all parties in 
turn to the bar of public opinion. It rallies the interests 
of the community round certain principles, and draws up 
the creed of e%'ery party ; for it affords a means of inter- 
course between those who hear and address each other, 
without ever coming into immediate contact. Wlicn muiy 
organs of the press adopt the same line of conduct, their 
influence in the long run becomes irresistible ; and public 

• Thcj only write ia the pajwra when thty choose to aiMrca th" pcopls 
In their own name ; u, for iostanre, when thcj arc called upon to repel 
calnmnioua impulationi, or to correct a 



LIBERTY OP THE PRESS IN THE OSTTED STATES. 239 

opinion, perpctaallj assailed from the same side, eventually 
yields to the attack. In the United States, each sej^ate 
journal exercises but little authority ; but the power of the 
periodical press is second only to that of the people.* 



The Opiaiona established in the United States, under the loflnence of the 
Libcitj of the Frees, are frequently mora firmly rooted than those whidi 
aze fonncd elsewliero under the Saoctioa of ft Cetuor. 

Is the United States, the democracy perpetually brings 
new men to the conduct of pubUc aSbirs; and the ad- 
ministration consequently seldom preserves consistency or 
order in its measures. But the general principles of the 
government are more stable, and the chief opinions which 
regulate sofiety are more durable, there than in many other 
countries. When once the Americans have taken up an H 
idea, whether it be well or ill founded, nothing is morel I 
difficult than to eradicate it from their minds. The same ' 
tenacity of opinion has been observed in England, where, 
for the last century, greater freedom of thought and more 
invincible prejudices have existed than in any other coun- 
try of Europe. I attribute this to a cause wliich may, at 
first sight, appetir to have an opposite tendency, namely, to 
the liberty of the press. The nations amongst whom this [i 
liberty exists cling to their opinions as much from pride as ;[ 
from conviction. They cherish them because they hold 
them to be just, and because they chose them of their own 
free will ; and they adhere to them, not only because they 
are true, but because they are their own. Several other 
reasons conduce to the same end. 

It was remarked by a man of genius, that " ignorance 

lies at the two ends of knowledge." Perhaps it would have 

been more correct to say, that strong convictions are found 

only at tlio two ends, and that doubt lies in the middle. 

* See Appendix F. 



iiO DEMOCRACr IN AMEBICA, 

Till! buman intellect, in tnitli, may be considered in Ûtno 
ili.it^i-t slates, which frequently succeed oae another. 

A man believes firmly, because lie adopts a proporâtion 
without inquiiy. He doubts as soon as objections pnesent 
themselves. But he frequeotJy succeeds in satisfying these 
doubts, !md then he begins again to believe. Tliis time, 
he has not a dim and casual glimpse of tho truth, but sees 
it clearly before him, and advances by the light it gives." 

When the liljerty of the press acts upon men who are in 
the first of these tliree states, it does not immediately dts~ 
turb their habit of believing implicitly without invastigatioD, 
but it changes every day the objects of their unreflecting 
convictions. The human mind continues to discern but 
one point at a time upon tlie whole intellectual horizon, 
and that point ia constantly changing. This Is the period 
of sudden n:\'olution8. Woe to tlie generations which first 
abruptly adopt the freedom of the press. 

The circle of novel ideas, however, b soon travelled 
I j over. Experience comes to undeceive men, ^.nd plunges 
I them into doubt and general mistrust. We may rest 
assured that the majority of mankind will always stop in 
one of these two states, will either believe tliey know not 
wherefore, or will not know what to believe. Few are 
those who can ever attain to that other state of rational 
and independent conviction, which true knowledge can 
produce out of the midst of doubt. 

It has been remarked that, in times of great reliions 
fer\'or, men sometimes change their religious o])inion3 ; 
whereas, in limes of general scepticism, every one clings to 
his old persuasion. The same thing takes place in politics 
under the hberty of the press. In countries where all the 
theories of social science have been contested in their turn, 

* It may, hoverer, be doubted whether thia miond and Mlf-gaidiug con 
Tlnicni RTOiues ai mnch férror or enthosiastic doToCedncu in men, M tbeb 

Km dogmatical belief. 



LIBEBTT 07 THE PKE80 Of THE DHTTED STATES. Ml 



men who have adopted one of them stick to it, not bo 
much because they are sure of its tnith, as because'\hejr 
are not sore that there is any better to be had. In the 
present age, men are not veiy ready to die for their opiit- 
ions, but they are rarely inclined to change them ; there 
are few martyrs, as well as few apostates. 

Another still more valid reason may be adduced : when 
no opinions are looked upon as certain, men cling to the 
mere instincts and material interests of their position, 
which are naturally more tangible, definite, and permanent 
than any opinions in the world. 

It is a very difficult question to decide, whether an arit- | 
tocracy or a democracy governs the best. But ït is cert&amp;in 1 
that democracy annoys one part of the community, and 
that aristocracy oppresses another. It is a truth which is 
sel^«stablished, and one which it is needless to discuss, 
that " von are rich and I am poor." 



DEUOORACY IN AilïLBlCA. 



CHAPTER XII. 

POLmCAt ASSOCUTIONS IN THE UNITED STATES. 

Pally Uic which Iliv Anglo-Americaiu moko of the Rigbt of Associatioii. — 
Tlirou Kind* of Polilic&amp;l Ajsociatioiit. — Uow tiie Amcriconi applj the 
AepnwvaMlire STiloni to Asaodatioiu. — Duig«n resnlciiig lo the State 
— Unwt CoarenlJotioriSai relktire to the Tariff. — Legielativo CharaidcT 
of thi* Convention. — Why the itnliniiled Exeidee of the Ilight of Ai- 
■ «ocinlion i» Ipm (lanjiproiis in the UDitcd States than elMwhere. — Whj 
It miiT I-.' looked upon n« tuxtsmj. — Utility of Association» among a 
dunocraiic P«opl«. 

IK no country in the world has the principle of associa- 
tion been more successfully used, or applied to a greater 
multitude of objects, than in America. Besides the peiv 
manent associations, which are established bj law, under 
die names of townships, cities, and counties, a vast number 
of others are formed and maint^ned by the agency of pri- 
vate individuals. 

The citizen of the United States is taught from in&amp;ncy 
to rely upon his own exertions, in order to reràt- tha evils 
and the diflimdties of life ; he looks upon the social author- 
i*y with ati eye of mistrust and anxiety, and he claims its 
assistance only when he is unable to do without it. This 
habit may be traced even in the schools, where the children 
in their games are wont to submit to rules which they have 
themselves established, and to punish misdemeanors which 
they have themselves defined. The aame spirit pervades 
every act of social life. If a stoppage occurs in a thor- 
oogh&amp;re, and the circulation of vehicles is hindered, the 
neighbors immediately form themselves into a deliberative 



POLITICAL ASSOCUTIONS ÏK THE UNITED STATES. 248 

body ; and this extemporaneous assembly gives rise to an 
executive power, which remedies the inconvenience before 
anybody has thought of recurring to a pre-esisting authoi^ 
ity superior to that of the persons immediately concerned. 
If some public pleasure is concerned, an' association is 
formed to give more splendor and regularity to the enter- 
tainment. Societies are formed to resist evils which are' ■ 
exclusively of a moral nature, as to diminish the vice of 
intemperance. In the United States, associations are es- 
tablished to promote the public saiety, commerce, industry, 
morality, and religion. There is no end which the human 
will despairs of attaining through the combined power of 
individuals united into a society. 

I shall have occasion hereafter to show the effects of 
association in civil life ; I confine myself for the present to 
the political world. \Vhen once the right of association is 
recognized, the citizens may use it in different ways. 

An association consists simply in the public assent which 
a number of individuals give to certain doctrines ; and in 
the engagement which they contract to promote in a cer- 
tain manner the spread of those doctrines. The right of 
associating with such views is very analogous to the hber^ 
of unlicensed printing ; but societies thus formed possess 
more authority than the press. When an opinion is rep- 
re3ente&lt;l by a society, it necessarily assumes a more exact 
and espHcit form. It numbers its partisans, and compro- 
mises them in its cause : they, on the other hand, become 
acquainted with each other, and their zeal is increased by 
their number. An association nnites into one channel the I I 
efforts of diverging minds, and urges them vigorously \ 
towards the one end which it clearly points out, ' ' 

The second degree in the exercise of the right of assi&gt; 
ciation is the power of meeting. When an association is 
allowed to establish centres of action at certain important 
points in the country, its activity is increased, and its ûf 



244 DEHOOACT n AUnCA. 

fluence extended. Men have tba gppiHtiiilî^ of MeiDg 
each other ; means of ézecnUon are comlùiied ; and opin- 
ions are niaintamed with K warmth and energy whidi 
written language can never attain. 

Lastly, in the ex&amp;rcise of the right of political auoctft- 
; tion, tlicre Ja a third degree : the partisans o£ an ojrâion 
may unite in electoral bodies, and choose delegates to lepi^ 
sent tliem in a central assembly. This is, properly spflak- 
ing, tlie application &lt;^ the représentative system to a p^ity. 

Tlias, in the ârst instance, a society is formed twtween 
mdividuals ]&gt;rofeâsing the same opinion, and the tie wbidl 
keeps it together is of a purely intellectual natore- In the 
second case, small assemblies are formed, which repreaent 
only a fraction of the party. Lastly, in the third case, 
they constitute, as it were, a separate nation in the midst 
of the nation, a government within the government. 
Their delegates, like the real delegates of the majority, 
npresent the whole collective force of their party ; and, 
like them, also, have an appearance of nationality and all 
tlie moral power which results from it. It is true that 
they have not the right, like the others, of making the 
laws ; but tliey have the power of attacking those which 
are in force, and of drawing up beforehand those which 
ought to be enacted. 

If, amohg a people who are imperfectly accustomed to 
the exercise of freedom, or are exposed to violent political 
passions, by the side of the majority who make the laws 
be placed a minority who only deliberate and get laws 
ready for adoption, I cannot but believe that public tran- 
quillity would there incur very great risks. There is 
doubtless a wide difference between proving that one law 
is in itself better than another, and proving that tlio former 
ought to be substituted for the latter. But the imagina- 
tion of the multitude b very apt to overlook this diffeiv 
ence, which is so apparent to the minds of thhikmg men. 



POLITICAL ASSOCUTIOHS M THE UOTTED STATES. 245 

It sometimes happens that a nation is divided into two 
nearly equal parties, each of which affects to represent the 
majority. If, near the directing power, another power be 
established, whicli exercises almost as much moral author- 
i^ as the former, we are not to believe that it will long be 
content to speak witliout acting ; or that it will always be 
restrained by tlie abstract consideration that associations 
are meant to direct opinions, but not to enforce them, — 
to suggest, but not to make, the laws. 

The more I consider the independence of the press in its 
principal consequences, the more am I convinced tliat, in 
the modem world, it is the chief, and, so to apeak, the con- 
stitutive element of liberty. A nation which is determined 
to remain free is tlierefore right in demanding, at any price, 
the exercise of this independence. But the unlimited lib- 
erty of political association cannot be entirely assimilated 
to the liberty of the press. The one is at the same time less 
nec^sary, and more dangerous, than the other, A nation 
may confine it witliin certain limits without forfeiting any 
part of its self-directing power ; and it may sometimes be 
obliged to do so, in onlcr to maintain ita own authority. 

In America, the liberty of association for political pur-j 
poses is unlimited. An example will show in the clearest! 
light to what an extent this privilege is tolemted. 

The question of a tariff or free trade has much agitated 
Uie minds of Americans. The tariff was not only a sub- 
ject of debate as a matter of opinion, but it affected some 
great material interests of the States. The North attrib- 
uted a portion of ita prosperity, and the South nearly all 
its sufferings, to this system. For a long time, tlie tariff 
was the sole source of the political animosities which agi- 
tated the Union. 

In 1831, when the dispute was raging with the greatest 
violence, a private citizen of Massachusetts proposed, bj 
means of the newspaper», to all the enemies of the tariff. 



M6 DEMOCRACY LV AMERICA. * 

to send delegates to Philadelphia, in order to consult t 
gether upon the best means of restoring freedom of tndec 
This proposal circulated in a few dajrs, by the power of the 
press, from Maine to New Orleans: tlie opponents of the 
tariff adopted it with enthusiasm ; meetings were held in 
all quarters, and delegates were appointed. The majority 
of these delegates were well known, and some of them 
had earned a considerable degree of celebrity. South Car- 
olina alone, which afterwards took np arms in the same 
cause, sent sixty-three delegates. On the 1st of October, 
1831, tills assembly, which, according to the American 
custom, liad taken the name of a Convention, met at Pldl- 
adelphia ; it consisted of more than two hundred member». 
Its debates were public, and they at once assumed a legis- 
lative character ; the extent of the powers of Congress, 
the theories of free trade, and the different provisions of 
the tariff were discussed. At the end of ten days, the 
Convention broke up, having drawn up an address to the 
American people, in which it declared: — 1. That Con- 
gress liad not the right of making a tariff, and that the ex- 
isting tariff was unconstitutional. 2. Tliat the prohibition 
of fi«e trade was prejudicial to the interests of any nation, 
and to those of the American people especially. 

It must be acknowledged that the unrestrained liberty 
of political association has not hitherto produced, in the 
United States, the fatal results whicli might perhaps bo 
expected from it ebewhere. The right of association was 
imported from England, and it has always existed in 
America ; the exercise of this privilege is now incorpo- 
rated with the manners and customs of the people. At 
the present time, the liberty of association has become a 
necessary guaranty against the tyranny of the majority. 
In ^e United States, as soon as a party has become dom- 
inant, all public authority passes into its hands : its private 
8 occupy all the offices, and have all the force &lt;^ 



POUTICAL ASSOCUHONS Df THE UltlTED STATES. 347 

the administration at their disposal. As the roost distin- 
guished members of the opposite partf cannot sunnoont 
the barrier which excludes them from power, they must 
establish themselves outside of it, &amp;nd oppose the whole 
moral authority of the minority to the physical power 
which domineers over it. Thus a dangerous expedient u 
used to obviate a still more formidable danger. 

The omnipotence of the majority appears to me to be so 
full of peril to the American republics, that the dangerous 
means used to bridle it seem to be more advantageous than 
prejudicial. And here I will express an opinion which 
may remind the reader of what I sud when speaking of 
the freedom of townships. Ther» are no countries inU 
which associations are more needed, to prevent the despot- 11 
ism of faction or the arbitrary power of a prince, Uian 1 
those which are democratically constituted. In aristocratic | 
nations, the body of the nobles and the wealthy are in 
themselves natural associations, which check the abuses of 
power. In countries where such associations do not exist, 
if private individuals cannot create an artificial and tempo- 
rary substitute for them, I can see no permanent protection 
against the most galling tyranny ; and a great people may 
be oppressed with impunity by a small &amp;ction, or by a 
single individual. 

The meeting of a great political convention, (for there 
are conventions of all kinds,) which may frequently become 
a necessary measure, is always a. serious occurrence, even in 
America, and one which judicious patriots cannot regard 
without alarm. Tliis was very perceptible in the Conven- 
tion of 1831, at which all the most distinguished members 
strove to moderate its language, and to restrain its objects 
within certain limits. It is probable that this Conventicoi 
exercised a great influence on the minds of the malcon- 
tents, and prepared them for the open revolt against the 
commercial laws of the Union which took place in 1882. . 



918 DBUOCBACT TS AMERICA. 

/ It cjinnot be denied that the unrestrained liberty of asso- 
I ciadon for poîitical parposee is the privilege which a people 
1 b longest in learning how to exercise. If it does not 
throw the nation into anarchy, it perpetually augments the 
chances of that calamity. On one point, however, thb 
perilons liberty offers a seonrity against dangers of another 
ikind; in countries where associations are free, secret soci- 
Gtieâ are unknown. Iii America, tlicre are Ëictions, but no 
Veonspiracies. 



The most natural privilege of man, nest to the right of 
acting for himself, is that of comhining his exertions with 
those of his fellow-creatnres, and of acting in conmum 
with them. The right of association therefore appears to 
nte almost as inalienable in its nature as the right of per- 
Bonal liberty. No legislator can attack it without impairing 
the foundations of society. Nevertheless, if the liberty 
of association is only a source of advantage and prosperiQr 
to some nations, it may be perverted or carried to excess 
by others, and from an element of life may be changed 
into a cause of destruction. ^ comparison of the differ- 
ent metliods which associations pursue, in those comitriea 
in which hberty is well understood, and in those where 
liberty degenerates into license, may be uaefiil both to gov- 
ernments and to parties. 

Most Europeans look upon association as a weapon 
which is to be hastily Ëisliîoned, and immediately tried in 
the conflict. A society is formed for discussion, but the 
idea of impending action prevails in the minds of all those 
who constitute it. It is, in iact, an array ; and the time 
gjven to speech serves to reckon up the strength and to 
inimate the courage of the host, aJW which they march 



POLITICAL ASSOCUTTONS IN THK DBITED STATES. 31Q 

against the enemj. Reaources which lie within the bounds 
of law may snggest themselves, to the persons who com- 
pose it, as means, -bat never as the only means, of success. . 

Snch, however, is not the manner in which the right of 
association is understood in the United States. In Amei&gt; 
ica, the citizens who form the mi nority associate, in ordei^ 
first, to show their numerical strength, and so to diminisl^ 
the moral power of the hmjority ; and, secondly, to Btima- 
late competition, and thus to discover those argumenta 
which are most fitted to act upon the majority : for th^ 
always entertain hopes of drawing over the majority to 
their own side, and then disposing of the supreme power in 
its name. Political associations in the United States are 
therefore peaceable in their intentions, and strictly l^al in 
the means which they employ; and they assert with perfect 
truth, that they aim at success only hy lawful expedients. 

The difference which exists in this respect between 
Americans and Europeans depends on several causes. Tn 
Europe, there are parties which differ so much from the 
majority, that they can never hope to acquire its support, 
and yet they think they are strong enough in themselves 
to contend against it. When a party of tliis hind forms ù^ 
association, its object is, not to convince, hot to fight. Ip 
America, the individuals who hold opinions much opposed 
to those of the majority can do nothing against it ; and all 
other parties hope to win it over to Uieir own principles. 
The exercise of the right of association becomes dangerous, 
then, in proportion as great parties find themselves wholly 
unable to acquire the majority. In a country like the 
"United States, in wliich the di^rences of opinion are 
mere differences of hue, the right of association may re- 
main unrestrained without evil consequences. Our inMt- 
perience of liberty leads ns to regard the liberty of associa- 
tion only as a right of attacking the government. IIm 
first notion which presents itself to a party, as wdl as to 



^^ DEMOCRACY IN MIEBICA. 

an indmdual, wlien it has acquired s. conaciimsness c 
own strength, is that of violence : the notion of persua 
*nses at a later period, and is derived from esperifi„. 
The English, who are divided into parties which diffo: ( 
aentially from eacli other, rarely abuHe the right of associ» 1 
non, because they liave long boon accuatomed to exerc 
It. In France, the passion for war is so intense, that t 
18 no undertaking so niad, or so injurious to the welfere t, 
the state, that a man does not consider iiimself honored kl&gt; 
drfending it at the risk of his IJfe. 

But perhaps the most powerfid of the causes which tM 
w&gt; mitigate the violence of political associations in tl 
United States is universal suffrage. In countries in wlu&lt; 
niiiversiil suffrage exists, the majority is never doubtful, 
because neither party can reasonably pretend to rcpruiiont 
that portion of the community which has not vot«d. The 
associations know as well as the nation at large, that they 
do not represent the majori^. This results, indeed, &amp;om 
the very fiict of their existence ; for if they did represent 
the preponderating power, they would change the law in- 
stead of soliciting its reform. The consequence of this is, 
that the moral influence of the government which they 
attack is much increased, and their own power is much 
enfeebled. 

In Euro])e, there are few associations which do not affect 
to represent the majority, or which do not believe that they 
represent it. This conviction or tliis pretension tends to 
augment their force amazingly, and contributes no less to 
legalize their measures. Violence may seem to be ex- 
cusable, in defence of the cause of oppressed right. Thos 
it is, in the vast complication of human laws, that extreme 
liberty sometimes corrects the abuses of liberty, and that 
ixtreme democracy obviates the dangers of democracy. 
[n Europe, associations consider themselves, in some de- 
jpee, as the legislative and executive council of the people, 



POLITICAL ASSOdATIOXS DT THE aHlTED STATES. 251 

■which is unable to speak for itself; moved by this belief, 
they act and they command. In America, where they 
represent in the eyea of all only a minority of the nation, 
they argue and petition. 

The means which associations in Eurc^ employ, are in 
accordance with the end which they propose to obt^n. 
As the principal ^m of these bodies is to act, and not to 
debate, to Bght rather than to convince, they are naturally 
led to adopt an organization which is not civic and peace- 
able, bnt partakes of the habits and manima of militaiy 
life. They centralize, also, the direction of their forces as 
much as possible, and intmat the power of the whole party 
to a small number of leaders. 

The members of these associations respond to a watch- 
word, like soldiers on duty ; they profess the doctrine of 
passive obedience ; say rather, that in uniting together they 
at once abjure the exercise of their own judgment and free 
will : and the tyrannical control which these societies exer- 
dse, is often fer more insupportable than the autliority pos- 
sessed over society by the government which they attack. 
Their monil force is much diminished by these proceedings, 
and tliey lose the sacred character which always attaches 
to a stniggle of the oppressed against tbeir oppressors. He 
who in given cases consents to obey bis fellows with ser- 
vility, and WÎ10 submits his will, and even bis thoughta, to 
their control, how can he pretend that he wishes to be free? 

The Americans have also established a government in 
their associations, but it. is invariably borrowed from the 
forms of the civil administration. Th-^ independence of 
each individual is formaUy recognized ; as in society, all the 
members advance at the same time towards the same end ; 
but they are not all obliged to follow the same track. No 
one abjures the exercise of his reason and free will ; but 
every one exerts that reason and will to promote a commoD 
nndertaking. 



262 DEUOGRAOT Off AMEBIQA. 



CHAPTER ZIII. 

GOVERNMEKT OF THE DDfOGKAOT IN AMEBICUL 

I AM well aware of the difiBcnIties wluch attend tlni 
part of my subject ; bat althon^ everj e x p r o aridft 
which I am about to use may dbub, upon some points, 
with the feelings of the difierent parties which divide nrf 
country, I shall still speak my whole thought. 

In Europe, we are at a loss how to judge the true char- 
acter and the permanent instincts of democracy, because 
in Europe two conflicting principles exist, and we do not 
know what to attribute to the principles themselves, and 
what to the passions which the contest produces. Such, 
however, is not the case in America; there the people 
reign without impediment, and they have no perils to 
dread, and no injuries to avenge. In America, democracy 
is given up to its own propensities ; its course is natural, 
and its activity is unrestrained; there, consequently, its 
real cliaracter must be judged. And to no people can this 
inquiry be more vitally interesting than to the French 
nation, who are blindly driven onwards, by a daily and 
irresistible impulse, towards a state of tilings which may 
prove either despotic or republican, but which will assur- 
edly be democratic. 

UNIVERSAL SUFFRAGE. 

I HAVE already observed that universal suffrage has 
been adopted in all the States of the Union: it conse- 



GOVEBHUEia' OF THE DEHOORAOT IN AUEBIOA. 258 

quently exists in commumlies which occupy very different 
positions in the social scale. I have had opportunities of 
observing its effects in different localities, and amongst 
races of men who are nearly strangers to each other in 
their language, their religion, and their modes of life ; in 
Louisiana as well as in New England, in Georgia as in 
Canada. I have remarked that universal sufiiage is &amp;r 
from producing in America either all the good or all the 
evil consequences which may be expected ârom it in Ett- 
rope, and that its effects generally differ very much irom 
those which are attributed to it. 



In the United StMo, ihe ablest Hen m« nntj pUc«d U the Beta of Afbii*. 
— Reason of this PecnlUri^. — The Enry which preraili in the lower 
Ordcn of France against the higher Claues ie Dot k French, bnt ■ pnrel/ 
democratic Feeling. — Why the mott diitingniibed Men in America fi«- 
quentlj leclnde themselres from pablic A&amp;in. 

Many people in Europe are apt to believe without say- 
ing it, or to say without believing it, that one of the great 
advantages of universal suffrage is, that it intrusts the 
direction of aff^rs to men who are worthy of the public 
confidence. They admit that the people are unable to 
govern of themselves, but they aver that the people always 
wish the welfare of the state, and instinctively designate 
those who are animated by the same good wishes, and who 
are the most fit to wield the supreme authority. I confess 
that the observ'ations I made in America by no means coin- 
cide with these opinions. On my arrival in the United 
States, I was surprised to find so much distinguished talent 
among the subjects, and so little among the heads of tlie 
government. It is a constant fact, that, at the present day, 
die ablest men in the United Statea are t«iely ç\aic«^ %X 'iW 



254 DEMOCBAOY M AMEBTG^L 

head of aflnirs ; and it must be acknowledged that such 
has been the result, in proportion as demociacy has ou^ 
stepped all its former limits. The race of American states 
men has evidently dwindled most remarkaUy in the cooiw 
of the last fifty years. 

Sereral causes may be assigned for this phenomenon. 
It is impossible, after the most strenaom exertions, to 
raise the intelligence of the people above a certain level. 
Whatever may be the &amp;ciUties of acquiring informatitm, 
whatever may be the proiîision of easy methods and cheap 
scieacs, the human mind can never be instructed and 
developed without devoting considerable time to these 
objects. 

The greater or tho less possibihty of subsisting without 
labor is therefore the necessary boundary of intâllectnal 
improvement. This boundary is more remote in some 
couutries, and more restricted iu others i but it must exist 
somewhere, as long as the people are constrained to work 
in onler to procure the means of subsistence, that is to say, 
as long as they continue to be the peoi»le. It is therefore 
quite as difficult to imagine a state in which all the citizens 
should bo very well informed, as a state in which they 
should all be wealthy ; these two difficulties are correlatÎTe. 
I readily admit that the mass of the citizens sincerely wish 
to promote the wel&amp;re of the country ; nay, more, I even 
allow that the lower classes mix fewer considerations of 
personal interest with their patriotism than the higlier 
orders ; but it is alwap more or less difficult for them to 
discern tlie host means of attuning the end wliich they 
sincerely desire. Long and patient observation and much 
acquii-ed knowledge are requisite to form a just estimate of 
the character of a single individual. Men of the greatest 
genius of^cn Jùil to do it, and can it be supposed that tha 
vulgar will always succeed ? The people have neither the 
time nor the means for an investigation c^ this kind. That 



aOTEBNMEHT OF THE DEUOCKACT IN AMEBICA. 255 

conclusions are hastily formed from a superficial inspection 
of the more promineiit features of a question. Hence it 
often happens that mountebanks of all sorts are able to 
please the people, whilst their truest fiieuds frequently 
&amp;il to gain their confidence. 

Moreover, the democracy not only lack that soandnees 
of judgment which is necessary to select men really de- 
serving of theh- confidence, but often have not the demre 
or tlie inclination to find them out. It cannot be denied 
that democratic institutions strongly tend to f&gt;romote the 
feeling of envy in the human heart ; not so much because 
they afford to every one the means of rising to the same 
level with others, as because those means perpetually disap- 
point the persons who employ them. Democratic institutions 
awaken and foster a passion for equality which they can 
never entirely satisfy. This complete equality eludes the 
grasp of the people at the very moment when they think 
they have grasped it, and " flies," as Pascal says, " with an 
eternal flight"; the people are excited in the pursuit of 
an advantage, which is more precious because it is not suf- 
ficiently remote to he unknown, or sufSciently near to be 
enjoyed. The lower orders are agitated by the chance of 
success, they are irritated by its imcertainty ; and they 
pass from the entboaiaam of pursuit to the exhaustion of 
ill-success, and lastly to the acrimony of disappointment. 
Whatever transcends their own limits appears to be an ob- 
stacle to their desires, and there is no superiority, however 
legitimate it may be, which is not irksome in their sight. 

It has been supposed that the secret instinct, which leads 
the lower orders to remove their superiors as much as pos- 
sible from the direction of public affairs, is peculiar to 
France. This, however, is ao error ; the instinct to which 
I allude is not French, it is democratic ; it may have been 
heightened by peculiar political circumstances, but it owei 
its origin to a higher caose. 



25l3 DEMOCRACY Di AMERICA. 

In the United States, the people do not hate the higher 
classes of society, but are n3t fovorahly inclined t«wi\rds 
tiic-m, and carefully exclude them from the exercise iif au- 
thority. Tliey do not drt-ad distiaguiahed talentâ, but are 
rarely fond of tliem. In general, every one who rises 
without tlieir aid seldom obtains their favor. 

Whilst the natural instincts of democracy induce the 
people to reject distinguished citizens as their rulers, an 
instinct not less strong induces able men to retire from the 
political arejia, in wliich it in so difficult to retain theJr 
independence, or to advance without becoming servile. 
This opinion has been candidly expressed by Chancellor 
Kent, who says, in speaking with high praise of that part 
of the Constitution which empowers the executive to nom- 
inale the judgi^s : " It is indeed probable that the men who 
are best fitt^ to discbarge the duties of this high ofiice 
would have too much reserve in their manners, and too 
much austerity in their principles, for them to be returned 
by the majority at an election where universal suflrage is 
^opted." Such were llie opinions which were printed 
without contradiction in America in the year 1830 1 

I hold it to be sufficiently demonstrated, that universal 
sai&amp;age is by no means a guaranty of the wisdom of the 
popular choice. Whatever its advantages may be, this is 
not one of them. 



GOVXBNUEKT or THE DEUOCSACT IN AHEBICA. 25T 



OoDtnry ERecta produced on NUioiu h od IndiTidoali b; great Duigen. 
— Why ao man; diitiiigniibed Men Rood at the Head of Aliàin in 
America fifty YcatB «go. — Influence which IntelUgance and Morali^ 
exerciie upon the popalar Choice. — Example of New Englaod. — Stale* 
of the SoDlhvest. — Bow ccrtuo I^iWt inaaeare the Choice of the Peo- 
ple. — Election bj «n elected Body. — III Efibcti upon the Compodtion 
of the Senate. 

When serious dangers threaten the state, the people fre- 
quCDtly succeed in selecting the citizens who are the most 
able to save it. It has been observed that man rarely r^ 
tains his customary level in very critical circumstances ; he 
rises above, or sinks below, his usual condition, and the 
same thing is true of nations. Extreme perils sometimes 
quench the energy of a people, instead of stimulating it ; 
they excite, without directing its passions j and instead of 
clearing, they confiise its powers of perception. The 
Jews fought and killed each other amid the smoking ruins 
of their temple. But it is more common, both with na- 
tions and individuals, to find extraordinary virtues devel- 
oped from the very imminence of the danger. Great 
characters are then brought into relief, as tlie edifices 
which are usually concealed by the gloom of night are 
illuminated by the glare of a conflagration. At those dan- 
gerous times, genius no longer hesitates to come forward j 
and the people, alarmed by the perils of tlieir situation, 
bury their envious passions in a short oblivion. Great 
names may then be drawn from the um of election. 

I have already observed, that the American statesmen 
of the present day are very inferior to those who stood at 
the head of affairs fifty years ago. This is as mnch a 
consequence of the circumstances, as of the laws, of the 
conntiy. When America was stni^ling m ft» V\^ 



358 PEMOCFACT m AilEHICA. 

cause of independence, to throw off the yoke of anotitei 
country, and when it was ahout to usher a new nation into 
the world, the sphits of its inhahitants were roused to tha 
height which their great objecta required. In this general 
excitement, distinguished men were ready to anticipate the 
call of tlie community, and the people clung to them for 
support, and placed tliem at their head. But such éventa 
are rare ; and it is from the ordinary course of afl'aîrs that 
our judgment must be formed. 

If passing occurrencea sometimes check the passions of 
democracy, tlie intelligence and the morals of tlie commu- 
nity exercise an influence on them which is not less power- 
ful, and far more permanent. Tills is very perceptible in 
the United States. 

In New England, where éducation nnd liberty are the 
daughters of morality and rehgion, — where society has ac- 
quired age and stability enough to enable it to form princi- 
ples and hold fixed habits, — the common people are accus- 
tomed to respect intellectual and moral superiority, and to 
submit to it without complaint, although they set at naught 
all those privileges which wealth and birth have introduced 
among mankind. In New England, consequently, the de- 
mocracy makes a more judicious choice than it does else- 
where. 

But as wc descend towards the South, to those States in 
which the constitution of society is more recent and leas 
strong, where instruction is leas general, and the principles 
of morality, religion, and hberty are less happily combined, 
we perceive that talents and virtues become more rare 
among those who are in authority. 

Lastly, when we arrive at tlie new Southwestern States, 
in which the constitution of society dates but from yester- 
day, and presents only an agglomeration of adventurers 
and speculators, we are amazed at the persons who are in- 
ivoled with public authority, and we are led to ask by what 



OOVEBKUENT OF THE DEHOCBACT IN AMERICA. 2a9 

torce, independent of the legislation and of the men who 
direct it, the state can be protected and society be made to 
flourish. 

There are certain laws of a democratic nature which 
contribute, nevertheless, to correct, in some measure, these 
dangerous tendencies of democracy. On entering the 
House of Representatives at Washington, one is struck 
by the vulgar demeanor of that great assembly. Often 
there is not a dbtinguished man in the whole number. Its 
members are almost all obscure individuals, whose names 
bring no associations to mind. They are mostly village 
lawyers, men in trade, or even persons belonging to the 
lower classes of society. In a country in which education 
is very general, it is said that the representatives of the 
people do not always know how to write correctly. 

At a few yards' distance is the door of the Senate, 
which contains within a small space a large proportion of 
the celebrated men of America. Scarcely an individual is 
to be seen in it who has not had an active and illustrions 
career : tlie Senate is composed of eloquent advocates, dia- 
tinguished generals, wise ma^strates, and statesmen of 
note, whose arguments would do honor to the most re- 
markable parliamentary debates of Europe. 

How comes this strange contrast, and why are the ablest 
citizens found in one assembly rather than in the other? 
Why is the former body remarkable for its vulgar elements, 
whilst the latter seems to enjoy a monopoly of intelligence 
and talent? Both of these assemblies emanate from the 
people ; both are chosen by universal suffrage ; and no 
voice has hitherto been heard to assert, in America, that 
the Senate is hostile to the interests of the people. From 
what cause, then, does so startling a difference arise? The 
only reason which appears to me adequately to account 
for it is, that the House of Representatives is elected by 
the people directly, while the Senate is elected by «LactaA. 



90 *~ DE^rOCRACT IN AHEBICA. 

bodies. Tlie whole body of the citizenB name the legiaktare 
of eacli State, aiid the Ft'deral Constitution converts thoM 
legislatures into so many electoral bodies, which return the 
members of the Senate. The Senators are elwted by an 
indirect application of the popular vote : for tlie legisla- 
tures which appoint them are not arbtocratie or priiilegcd 
bodies, which elect in their own right ; but they are chosen 
hy the totahty of the citizens ; tJiey are generally elected 
every year, and new members may be chosen every year 
enough to detenninc the Senatorial appointments. But 
this transmission of the ]&gt;opular authority through an as- 
sembly of chosen men operates an important change in it, 
by refining its discretion and improving its clioice. Men 
who are chosen in this manner accurately represent the 
majority of the nation which governs them ; but they rep- 
resent only the elevated thoughts which are current in the 
oommunity, and the generous propensities which prompt 
its nobler actions, rather than the petty passions which 
disturb, or the vices which disgrace it. 

The time must come when the American republics will 
be obliged more frequently to introduce the plan of elec- 
tion by an elected body into their system of representation, 
or run the risk of perishing miserably amongst the shoals 
of democracy. 

I do not hesitate to avow, that I look upon this peculiar 
system of election as the only means of bringing the exer- 
cise of political power to the level of all classes of. the peo- 
ple. Those who hope to convert this institution into the 
exclusive weapon of a party, and those who fear to use it, 
seem to me to be equally in error. 



mmmmm*» ^ Vfj_.«i.a S 



GOVERNMEl^T OF THE DEMOCRACY IN AMERICA. 261 

INFLUENCE WHICH THE AMERICAN DEMOCRACY HAS EXER- 
CISED ON THE LAWS RELATING TO ELECTIONS. 

When Elections are rare, they expose the State to a violent Crisis. — When 
they are frequent, they keep up a feyerish Excitement. — The Americapa 
have preferred the second of these two Evils. — Matability of the Laws» 
— Opinions of Hamilton, Madison, and Jefiferson on this Subject. 

When elections recur only at long intervals, the state is 
exposed to violent agitation every time they take place. 
Parties then exert themselves to the utmost, in order to 
gain a prize which is so rarely within their reach ; and as 
the evil is almost irremediable for the candidates who fail, 
everything is to be feared from their disappointed ambition. 
If, on the other hand, the legal struggle is soon to be re- 
peated, the defeated parties take patience. 

When elections occur frequentiy, their recurrence keeps 
society in a feverish excitement, and gives a continual in- 
stability to pubhc affairs. Thus, on the one hand, the state 
is exposed to the perils of a revolution, — on the other, to 
perpetual mutability ; the former system threatens the very 
existence of the government, the latter prevents any steady 
and consistent policy. The Americans have preferred the 
second of these evils to the first ; but they were led to this 
conclusion by instinct more than by reason, for a taste for 
variety is one of the characteristic passions of democracy. 
Hence their legislation is strangely mutable. 

Many Americans consider the instability of their laws as 
a necessary consequence of a system whose general results 
are beneficial. But no one in the United States affects to 
deny the feet of this instability, or contends that it is not a 
great evil. 

Hamilton, after having demonstrated the utility of a 
power which might prevent, or at least impede, the pro- 
mulgation of bad laws, adds: "It may perhaps be said, that 
the power of preventing bad laws includes that of ^t^-^^dV 



26S DEuocRAcr ra America. 

iiig good ones, and may be used to the one purpose as well 
as to ilie other- But tliis objection will have little weight 
with those who can properly estimate tlie miacliiefs of that 
inconstancy and mutability in tlie laws which form the 
greatest blemish in the character and genius of our govern- 
ments." (Federalist, No. T3.) 

And agabi, in No. 62 of the same work, he observes : 
" The facility and excess of law-making seem to be the di»- 
eases to which our governments are most liable." 

Jefferson himself, the greatest democrat whom the de- 
mocracy of America has as yet produced, pointed out the 
same dangers. 

" The instability of our law»," add he, " is really a very 
serions inconvenience. I think that wc ought to have ob- 
viated it by deciding that a whole year should .always be 
allowed to elapse between the bringing in of a hill and the 
final passing of it. It should afterwards be discussed and 
put to the vote without the possibility of making any al- 
teration in it ; and if the circumstances of the cf^e required 
a more speedy decision, the question should not be decided 
by a simple majority, but by a majority of at least two 
thirds of both houses." 



r THE iXSRlCAS 



Simple Extorior of Americtut public Offlcera. — No officW C 

public Officera are Temoiierated. — Political Cotuequoncei of thi* Sjt- 
tem. — Ko public Careor exists in America. — ReBulto ot thla Fact. 

Public officers in the United States are confounded with 
fiie crowd of citizens ; they have neither palaces, nor 
guards, nor ceremonial costumes. This simple exterior of 
persons in authority is connected, not only with the pecu- 
liarities of the American character, but with the tunda- 
jnental principles of society. In the estimation of the 



.■3«««?*t?rt^ 



GOVEBKMENT OF THE DEMOCRACY IN AMERICA. 268 

democracy, a government is not a benefit, but a necessary ' 
evil. A certain degree of power must be granted to pub- 
lic officers, for they would be of no use without it. But 
the ostensible semblance of authority is by no means in- 
dispensable to the conduct of affairs ; and it is needlessly 
offensive to the susceptibility of the public. The public 
officers themselves are well aware, that they enjoy the su- 
periority over their fellow-citizens which they derive fix&gt;m 
their authority, only on condition of putting themselves 
on a level with the whole community by their manners. 
A public officer in the United States is uniformly simple in 
his manners, accessible to all the world, attentive to all re- 
quests, and obliging in his replies. I was pleased by these 
characteristics of a democratic government; I admired 
the manly independence which respects the office more 
than the officer, and thinks less of the emblems of author-, 
ity than of the man who bears them. 

I believe that the influence which costumes really exer- 
cise, in an age like that in which we live, has been a good 
deal exaggerated. I never perceived that a public officer 
in America was the less respected, whilst in the discharge 
of his duties, because his own merit was set off by no ad- 
ventitious signs. On the other hand, it is very doubtfiil 
whether a peculiar dress induces public men to respect 
themselves, when they are not otherwise inclined to do so» 
When a magistrate (and in France such instances are not 
rare) snubs the parties before him, or indulges his wit at 
their expense, or shrugs his shoulders at their pleas of de- 
fence, or smiles complacently as the charges are enumer- 
ated, I should like to deprive him of his robes of office, to 
see whether, when he is reduced to the garb of a private 
citizen, he would not recall some portion of the natural 
dignity of mankind. 

No public officer in the United States has an official cos- 
tume, but every one of them receives a aalarj. kxÀ:'$kàs^ 



•-•.-* I 



264 DEMOC&amp;ACT m àkesica: 

also, still more naturally than wlist precedes, resolts ftoiji 
democratic principle,. A democ»cy may dlow «ane iriig. 
isterial pomp, and clothe its oj£cen in flilkfl and gold, witin 
out seriously compromising its prindpIeB. Pri villes ef 
this kind are transitory ; they belong to the place, and not 
to the man. But if puUic ojfioers are unpaid, a dasB of 
rich and independent puUic functionaries will be created, 
wlio will constitute the basis of an aristocracy ; and if the 
people still retain their right of election, the choice can 
be made only from a certain class of citizens. 

When a democratic republic renders gratuitous offices 
which had formerly been remunerated, it may safely be 
inferred that the state is advancing towards monarchy. 
And when a monarchy begins to remunerate such officers 
as had hitherto been unpaid, it is a sure sign that it is ap- 
proaching a despotic or a republican form of government. 
The substitution of paid for unpaid functionaries is of it- 
self, in my opinion, sufficient to constitute a real revolution. 

I look upon the entire absence of unpaid offices in 
America as one of the mast prominent signs of the abso- 
lute dominion which democracy exercises in that country. 
All public services, of whatsoever nature they may be, are 
paid ; so that every one has not merely a right, but also 
the means, of performing them. Although, in democratic 
states, all the citizens are qualified to hold offices, all are 
not tempted to try for them. The nimiber and the capaci- 
ties of the candidates, more than the conditions of the can- 
didateship, restrict the choice of the electors. 

In nations where the principle of election extends to 
everything, no political career can, properly speaking, be 
said to exist. Men arrive as if by chance at, the post 
which they hold, and they are by no means sure of retain- 
ing it. This is especially tme when the elections are held 
annually. The consequence is, that, in tranquil times, 
public functions offer but few lures to ambition. In the 



tiOVEBNHENT OF THE DEHOCBACT IN AUEBICA. 26&amp; 

United States, those who engage in the perplexities of 
political life are persons of very moderate pretensions. 
The pursuit of wtalth generally diverts men of great tal- 
ents and strong passions from the pursuit of power ; and 
it irequently happens that a man does not undertake to 
direct the fortunes of the state until he has shown himself 
incompetent to conduct his own. The vast number (rf' 
very ordinary men who occupy public stations is quite as 
attributable to these causes, as to the bad choice of the 
democracy. In the United States, I am not sure that the 
people would choose men of superior abilities, even if they 
wished to be elected ; but it is certain that candidatM of 
this description do not come forward. 




For what Rcmod the u-bilrtuy Power of Magistrales û gnêUx in Abaolats 
Monarchies and in Demoaadc Kepablim than it is in Limited ISoBâiy 
chio. — Arbitraiy Foircr of the Magistrates in New England. 

In two kinds of government the ma^trates ex^vise 
considerable arbitrary power, — namely, under the abso- 
lute government of an individual, and under that of a de- 
mocracy. This identical result proceeds from very similar 
causes. 

In despotic states, the fortune of no one is secure ; pub- 
lic officers are not more safe than private persons. The 
sovereign, who has under his control the lives, the proper- 
ty, and sometimes the honor, of the men whom he employs, 
thinks he has nothing to fear from them, and allows them 
great latitude of action, because he b convinced that they 
will not use it against him. In despotic states, the sover- 

)e ; I applj it to all 



266 DEXOCBÂOT ra AïŒBICA. 

eîgii is so much attached to hia power, tlmt he disllkts the 
constraJnt even of his own regulations, and likea to see bis 
agents acting irregularly, and, as it were, by chance, in 
onler to be sure tliat their actions will never counteract his 
desires. 

In democracies, aa tlie majority has every'ycar the right 
of taking away the power of the officers wlioin it had ap- 
]»oint4-d, it has no reason to fear any abuse of their author- 
ity. As the people are always able to signify their will to 
tliose who conduct the government, they prêter leaving 
them to their own free action, instead of prescribing an 
invariable rule of conduct, ■which would at once fetter 
tlioir activity and the iiopular authority. 

It may even hi: oW'r\ I'd, mi uHfiilive cotmiiioration, that, 
under the rule of a democracy, the arbitrary action of the 
magistrate must be still greater tlian in despotic states. 
In the latter, the sovereign can immediately punish all the 
faults with which he becomes acquainted, but he cannot 
hope to become acquainted with all those which are com- 
mitted. In democracies, on the contrary, the sovereign 
power is not only supreme, but universally present. The 
American functionaries are, in Ëict, much more free in the 
sphere of action which the law traces out for tliem than 
any public officer in Europe. Veiy frequently, the object 
which they are 4o accomphsh is simply pointed out to them, 
and the choice of the means is left to their own discretion. 

In New England, for instance, the selectmen of each 
township are bound to draw up the list of persons who are 
to serve on the jury ; the only rule which is l^d down to 
guide them in their choice is, that they are to select citizens 
possessing the elective franchise and enjoying a fair repu- 
tation.* In France, the lives and liberties of the subjects 
would be thought to be in danger, if a public officer of any 
* Itthonld b« added, that the jonin an afterwardi dnim tram thcM 



GOVEEHUENT OF THE DEMOCBACY M AMEBIOÀ. 267 

kind was intrusted with so formidable a right. In New 
England, the same magistrates are empowered to post the 
names of habitual drunkards in public houses, and to pro- 
hibit the inhabitants of a town irom supplying them with 
liquor,* Such a censorial power would be revolting to the 
population of the most absolute monarchies; here, bow- 
ever, it is submitted to without difBcultj. 

Nowhere has so much beeb left by the law to the arbi- 
trary determination of the ma^trate as in democratic re- 
publics, because they have nothing to fear &amp;om arbitrary 
power. It may even be asserted that the freedom of the 
ma^trate increases as the elective Jranchise is extended, 
and as the duration of the tipie of office is shortened. 
Hence arises the great difficulty of converting a demo- 
cratic repubhc into a monarchy. The magistrate ceases to 
be elective, but he retains the rights and the habits of an 
elected officer, which lead directly to' despotism. 

It is only in limited monarchies that the law, which pre- 
scribes the sphere in which public officers are to act, super- 
intends all their measures. The cause of this may be easily 
detected. In limited monarchies, the power is divided be- 
tween the king and the people, both of whom are interest- 
ed in the stability of the magistrate. The king does not 
venture to place the public officers under the control of the 
people, lest they should be tempted to betray his interests ; 
on the other hand, the people fear lest the magistrates 
should serve to oppress the liberties of the country if they 
were entirely dependent upon the crown : they cannot, 

■ See Act of SBth Fcbroaij, ITST. [Bat ihl« bw is obsolete. And H. 
de Tocqaerilte'a olhcr inetance i» not happily chosen. In England, which 
U • limited monarchy, the jury lists are diawn op by the BhcrifT, and such ft 
pOTGT ii mora fonnidsble in the hands of one man than of leTeraL la 
Dnth, the doctritM of the aotbor bete i» » verr qitestioDsble one. Magi*- 
mtet itt Ameiicft do not hare to mach trusted to their discreiion m in 
Eoglaad or France. Their modes of action are prescribed Itetbiehsnd \&gt;f 
Inr, and defined nith jealous caie. — Am. Ed.] ___ 



i 



p 



268 VEHOouor nr ihehoa. 

therefore, be aaid to depend &lt;m cither the one or d» oteni 
The same cause which indacea the king and Hie peopla to 
render public officers independent, soggesti the n oc aa n ^ of 
such securities as may prevent tlieir indc^&gt;endence froatf 
encroaching upon llie sntliori^ of the îoTmet, m upon tha 
liberties of the latter. Thejr consequently agree as to Ù10 
necessity of restricting tlie iunctionary to a line of condack 
lùd down beforehand, and find it for their interest to inn' 
pose upon him certain re^iolations which he cannot evade. ' 



&lt; 



In America, the Fablic Acts of a Commniiitj (reqaenti; leare fewer TracM 
than the Occmreacea in a Family. — Ncwspapcra the only Hislorical 
Bcmains. — Instability of tlio Adminisnation pnjndicial to the Art of 
GoTemmeat. 

The authority which poblic men possess in America is 
BO brief, and they are so soon commingled with the ever- 
changing popula^on of the country, that the acts of a 
community frequently leave fewer traces than the erento 
in a private &amp;mily. The public administration is, go to 
speak, oral and traditionary. But little is committed to 
writing, and that little is soon wafted away forever, like 
the leaves of the Sibyl, by the smallest breeze. 

The only historical remains in the United States are the 
newspapers ; if a number be wanting, the chain of time is 
broken, and the present is severed from the past. I am 
convinced that, in fifty years, it will be more difficult to 
collect authentic documents concerning the social condition 
of the Americana at the present day, than it is to find re- 
mains of the administration of France during the Middle 
Ages ; and if the United States were ever invaded by 
barbarians, it would be necessary to have recourse to the 



GOVERNMENT OF THE PESfOCBACY IN AMEKIGA. 269 

history of other nations, in order to learn anything of the 
people who now inhabit them. 

The instabihty of the administration has penetrated into 
the habits of the people ; it even appears to suit the general 
taste, and no one cares for what occurred before his time ; 
no methodical system is pursued ; no archives are formed ; 
and no dociunents are brought together when it would be 
very easy to do so.* Where they exist, little store is set 
upon them. I have amongst my papers several original 
public documents, which were given to me in the public 
offices, in answer to some of my inquiries. In America, 
society seems to live (com hand to mouth, like an army 
in the field. Nevertheless, the art of administration is 
undoubtedly a science, and no sciences can be improved 
if the discoveries and observations of successive generations 
are not connected together, in the order in which they 
occur. One man, in the short space of his life, remarks 
a fact, another conceives an idea; the former invents a 
means of execution, the latter reduces a truth to a formula ; 
and mankind gather the finiits of individual experience on 
their way, and gradually form the sciences. But the per- 
sons who conduct the administration in America can sel- 
dom afford any instruction to each other ; and when they 
assume the direction of society, thev simply possess those 

• One would think that M. de Tocquevillc had never seen the yolumi- 
nons documents which are printed every year, here in America, bj the order 
of the State legislatures and of Congress. In the aggregste, they ahreadj 
f:rm a respectable librarj, so that the future historian will sufier rather from 
the embarrassment of riches than from the want of materials. Instead of 
complaining that "little is committed to writing/' in America, and that 
" that little is soon wafted awaj forever/' he ought to censure the inordi- 
nate loquacity of Presidents, Governors, legislators, and other public ol^ 
fioers, whose inlerminable messages, reports, and supplementary docomenii 
are preserved by the public printers in many huge volumes, which nobo^i 
indeed, ever thinks of perusing, but which are even difficult to cohbiiII 09 
account of their number and magnitude. — Am. £d. 



ïro 

attaiiUBirats wlùch aie «iUj AnaaiiiKted in fhe eonmDt- 
luty. an&lt;I DO knowMga pwofiw to dMUKhm. DciBoo- 
ncy. ptslMvt to Its farti w rt fiaûta, is Uierefen pr^ndidil to 
tlw art of ^rmuamt ; ntd, ftr this reason, it is bottar 
aJ:i{&lt;tvU to a people afaeadj vened in the ccaidnet of ad- 
wtiêtractoo. than to a nation which is aninitiated in public 
a£tir«. 

Vb.::t rvmark. indeed, is not ezcloraTdj cppEcable to iba 
«.'itriKv of aJmtnistfatKRi. Althongh a democratic gonm- 
Bteii: » 6&gt;Qii&lt;J«&lt;l QpOD a Ttrj simple and natnial principle, 
it ^w»y» pivïupposea the existence of a hi^ degree of 
Ctttiifffv and enlightenment in societj.* At fint, it nii^t 
b)V^up[K&gt;Evd to belong to the earliest ages of tlie worid ; 
ut niaturiT observation will convince as that it coold onljr 
/rom&lt;e Lut in the succession of human history. 



In ill Commnnilii», Citizena are diTigible into certain Cluses. — Hibht of 
each of IhMO Classes in the DirocCJOD of Public Finances. — Why Pub- 
lie ExpendituR! most tend to increase when ihc People goreni. — What 
teoitcn the Extramganco of a Demorracj less to be feared in America. 
— Public Expenditure Doder a DemocrsL'j. 

Before wo can tell whether a democratic government is 
economicnl or not, we must establish a standard (rf com- 
parison. The question would be of easy solution, if we 
were to draw a parallel between a democratic republic and 
an absolute monarchy. The public expenditure in the for- 
mer would bo found to be more considerable tlian und» 
the latter ; such is the case with all free states compared 
with those which are not so. It is ccrtiun that despolisn] 

■ Il is needless to observe, that I speak here of the democratic Ibnn of 
«rcnuncnC as applied to a people, and not mcrtl; to a tribe. 



GOVEBNUEHT OF THE DEUOCBAOY IN AMEKICA. 271 

mins individuals by preventing them firom producing 
-wealth, much more than by depriving them of what they 
bavf: ah-eady produced ; it dries up the source of riches, 
whilst it usually respects acquired property. Freedom, on 
the contrary, produces &amp;r more goods than it destroys; 
and tlie nations which are &amp;vored by &amp;ee institutions in- 
variably find that their resources increase even more raj^ 
idly tlian their tances. 

My present object is to compare firee nations with each 
other, and to point out the influence of democracy upon 
the finances of a state. 

Communities, as well as organic bodies, are subject in 
their formation to certain fixed rules, from which they cai^ 
not depart. They are composed of certain elements which 
are common to them at all times and under all circum- 
stances. The people may always be mentally divided into 
three classes. The first of these classes consists of the 
wealthy ; the second, of those who are in easy circum- 
stances ; and the tldrd is composed of those who have littie 
or no property, and who subsist by the work which they 
perform for the two superior orders. The proportion of 
the individuals in these several divisions may vary accord- 
ing to the condition of socie^ ; but the divisions then^ 
selves can never be obliterated. 

It is evident that each of these classes will exercise an 
influence peculiar to its own instincts upon the administra- 
tion of the finances of the state. If the first of the tliree 
exclusively jKissesses the legislative power, it is probable 
that it will not be sparing of the public funds, because the 
taxes which arc levied on a large fortune only diminish the 
sum of supei'fluities, and are, in fact, but little ft;lt. If the 
second class has the power of making the laws, it will cer- 
tùnly not be lavish of taxes, because nothing is so onerous 
as a large impost levied upon a small income. The gOT- 
emment of the middle classes appears to me tk« tao&amp;'t. ou^ 



272 DEHDCRAOT IN AHESICA. 

nomictJ, I will not say the most enlightened, and certûnlj 
not the most gencrom, of £ree governments. 

Let us now sappoee that the legialatÏTe anthority û 
vested in tl^ lowest order : there are two strildng reuona 
which show that the tendency of the expenditoies will be 
to increase, not to diminish. 

As the great majority of those who create the laws ban 
no taxable property, oU the money which is spent fiir the 
c&lt;muinni^ appears to be spent to their advantage, at no 
cost of their own ; and tbose who have some little prop- 
erty readily find means of so regulating the taxes, that they 
weigh upon the wealthy and profit the poor ; although the 
rich cannot take the same advantage when they are in pos- 
session of the government. 

In countries in which the poor * should have the exdo^ 
sive power of making the laws, no great economy of pub- 
lic expenditure ought to be expected : that expenditnie 
will always be considerable ; eàùtar because tlie taxes can- 
not weigh upon those who levy them, or because they are 
levied in such a nuuuier as not to reach these poorer 
classes. In other words, the go%'emmcnt of the democ- 
racy is the only one under which the power which votes 
the taxes escapes tlie payment of them. 

In vain will it be objected, that the true interest of the 
people is to spare the fortunes of the rich, since they mnst 
suiFor in the long run from the general impoverislmient 
which will ensue. Is it not the true interest of kings, also, 
to render their subjects happy, and of the nobles to admit 
recruits into tlicir order on suitable grounds ? If remote 
advantages had power to prevail over the passions and the 

* The word poor is u.'unI here, and throoehont the ramunder of this cli^ 
trr, in &gt; rvlalivc, nol in an Blwolaic «cu»c. I'oor men in Amerin vonU 
often ■])prar Hrh in comparison with (he poor oF Enropc ; but Ihcr maj 
witK prupriuly be alj^ed poor in comparison wilh their more affluant cooo- 



GOVEBNMENT OF THE DEMOCRACY IN AUEBICA. 273 

exigencies of the moment, no sacfa' thing as a ^lannieal 
sovereign or an exclusive aristocracy could ever exist. 

Again, it may be objected that tlie poor never have tlie 
sole power of making the laws ; but I reply, that, wherever 
universal suSrage has been established, the majori^ tin- 
questionably exercises the legislative authority ; and if it 
be proved tliat the poor always constitute the majority, 
may it not be mlded, with perfect truth, that, in the couo- 
bries in wliicli tlicy possess the elective franchise, they pos- 
sess the sole power of making the laws ? It is certain 
that, in all the nations of the worid, the greater number has 
always consisted of those persons who hold no property, 
or of those whose property is insufBcient to exempt them 
from the necessity of working in order to procure a com- 
fiïrtable subsistence. Universal suffiage does, therefore, 
in point of &amp;ct, invest the poor with the government of 
•oclety. 

The disastrous influence which popular authority may 
sometimes exercise upon the finances of a state was clearly 
seen in some of the democratic repablica of antiqui^, in 
which the public treasure was exhausted in order to relieve 
indigent citizens, or to supply games and theatrical amuse- 
ments &amp;r the populace. It is true, that die representative 
system was then almost unknown, and tliat, at the present 
time, the infiueiice of popular passions is less felt in the 
conduct of public affairs ; but it may well be beUeved that, 
in the end, the delegate will conform to tlie principles of 
his constituents, and &amp;vor their propensities as much as 
their interests. 

The extravagance of democracy is, however, less to be 
dreaded in proportion as the people acquire a share of 
property, because, on the one hand, the contributions of 
the rich are tlu-ii less needed, and, on the other, it is more 
difficult to impose taxes which shall not reach the imposeis. 
On this account, universal sufirage would bd l«a&amp; 4axi^st«QK 



fH DEMOCRACY IN AMERICA. 

in France than in England, where nearly oil tbe taxable 
prnpcrty is vested in tlic honda of a fow. Acneriea, wbttv 
Uie grvnt mtijority of the cltiitena possess Rome forttme, is 
in a still more fiivoraWe position than France. 

There are further causes which may increase the aiiumnt 
of iinblic exjiendîture in democratic countries. When an 
aristocracy governs, those who conduct the aflairs of state 
are exempted, by their very station in society, from any 
want : content witli their lot, power and renown are the 
only objects for which they strive ; placed far above the 
obscure crowd, they do not always clearly perceive how 
the well-being of the mass of Uie people will redound to 
^icir own grandeur. They are not, indeed, callous to the 
BuHerings of the poor ; bat they cannot feel those mÎMnal 
u Kcutely as if they were themselves partakers of dieoi. 
Provided that the people appear to submit to their lot, 
die rulers are satisfied, and demand nothing further from 
die government. An aristocracy is more intent upon Ûta 
means of maintaining than of improving its condition. 

When, on the contrary, the people are invested with ibe 
caprcme authority, they are perpetually seeking for some- 
thing better, because tliey feel the hardsliips of their lot. 
The thirst for improvement extends to a thousand different 
objects ; it descends to the most trivial details, and especial- 
ly to those changes which are accompanied with consider»- 
ble expense, since the object is to improve the conditÎMi t£ 
the poor, who cannot pay for the improvement. More- 
over, all democratic communities arc agitated 1^ an ill- 
defined excitement, and a kind of feverish impatience, that 
creates a multitude of innovations, almost all of which «re 
expensive. 

In monarchies and aristocracies, those who ore ambitions 
flatter the natural taste which the rulers have for pow«r 
and renown, and thos often incite them to vcty cmtlj' 
undertakings. In democracies, where tbe foIos ore poor 



GOTERHMENT OF THE DEUOCRACT IK AHEBICA. '275 

and in want, they can he courted only by such means as 
■will improve their well-being, and these improvements can- 
not take place without money. When a people begin to 
reflect on their situation, they discover a multitude of 
wants which they had not before been conscious of, and to 
satisfy these exigencies recourse must he had to the coffers 
of the state. Hence it happens that the puhUc charges 
increase in proportion to the civiJizadon of the countiy, 
and imposts are augmented as knowledge becomes more 



The last cause which renders a democratic government 
dearer than any other is, that a democracy does not always 
lessen its expenditures even when it wishes to do so, be- 
cause it does not understand the art of being economical. 
As it frequently changes its purposes, and still more îr»- 
quently its agents, its undertakings are oflen ill conducted 
or lefl unfinished: in the former case, the state spends 
Bams out of all proporUon to tfie end which it proposes to 
accomplish ; in the latter, the expense brings no return. 



Id Dcmorradcs, those who establish high Salaries have no chance of profit- 
ing bj them. — Tendency of iho American Democracy to increase tha 
SsUrica of Eubordinato Offlccra, and to lower tliosc of the more impor- 
tADt FuQctionanca. — Reason of thU. — Comparative Statement of tba 
Salaries of Public Officcre in the United States and in Franco. 

There is a powerfid reason which usually induces de- 
mocracies to economize upon the salaries of public officers. 
Those who fix the amount of the salaries, being very nu- 
merous, have but little chance of obtaining office so as to 
be in receipt of those salaries. In aristocratic countries, 
on the contrary, the individuals who appoint high salaries 
have almost always a vague hope of çtoÈùa^ ^ï^ 'ûosm* 



2T8 DEHOCTUCT IN AMEBIC A. 

These appointmonta may be looked upon as a capita! wliicli 
tiiey create for their own ose, or at least as a resource for 
their children. 

It must be allowed, moreover, that a democratic state ig 
most ])arBimonious towards its principal agents. In Amer* 
ica, the secondary ofRcera are much better, and the higher 
fimctionaries much worse paid, than elsewhere. 

Tliese opposite effects result from the same t-anse : thé 
people fis the salaries of the public officers in btitli cases ; 
and the scale of remuneration is determined by the com- 
parison of their own Want^. It is lield to be fair, that the 
servants of the public should be placed in tlio same easy 
circumstances as the public tliemselves ; * but when the 
question turns upon the salaries of the great officers of 
atato, this rule falls, and chai&gt;ce aione guiàijs tha populikr 
decision. The poor have no adequate conception of the 
wants which the higher classes of society feel. The snm 
which is scanty to the rich appears enormous to him 
whose wants do not extend beyond the necessaries of life; . 
and in his estimation, the Governor of a State, with his 
twelve hundred or two thousand dollars a year, is a fortu- 
nate and enviable being.f If you try to convince him 
that the representative of a great people ought to appear 
with some splendor in the eyes of foreign nations, he will 
at first assent to jour assertion ; but when he reflects on 

* Th« ctsj dnrnmitiuiFm iQ which Berondarj functionariea arc pisced in 
the United Slates result, slio, from another cuue, irhich is indepMiddit 
of the general tcudeacicB of dcmocntcj: every kind of private biuinees is 
ïBTy lucndive, luid tlie «late would not be served at sll if it did not pay It* 
mttbhU well. The country is in the position of a commercial house, which 
if, TiMi^ to sustain a costly competition, notwithjlanding ill lactca are mo- 

t T)]e Stale of Ohio, which contains a million of inhabitants, ^ves tti 
Governor a salary of only 1 ,S0O dollars a year. [Now that its popalatioli 
exceods tiro millions, the Governor's salary has been raiaed to 1,S00 dollMi 



GOVEBNHEKX OT THE DEHOGBACT IN AMEBIOA. 277 

his own humble dwelling, and the sm&amp;ll earnings of his 
hard toil, he remembers ail that he could do with a salaiy 
which you judge to be insuiBcient, and he is startled and 
almost frightened at the view of so much wealth. Be- 
sides, the secondary public oiBcer b almost on a level with 
the people, whilst die others are raised above them. The 
fonner may therefore excite his sympathy, but the lattw 
begin to arouse his envy. 

This is clearly seen in the United States, where the sal- 
aries seem, if I may so speak, to decrease as the authority 
of those who receive them is augmented.* 

Under the rule of an aristocracy, on the contrary, the 
high officers receive munificent salaries, while the interior 

" To render this esawlion perfectly evident, it will suffice to examine tlM 
■cale or Balnric» of tlie agents of the FederU government I have fidded 
the salaries of the conetponding offlcen in France, to complete the com- 

CVITID STATES. VKAHOB. 

ifïaMèn i&amp; Finança. 
I Hniisier, . . . l,HN)fr. (*300) 
I Clerk with lowest sala. 
I ry, 1,000 to 1,800 fr. (9300-360) 
) Clerk with highosl aala- 

«lo 3,600 ft. (S640-7») 
I SeaeCaire-e^Dfral, aO,OO0fr.(ti,0Op) 
TheMinister, 80,000 fr. (SI6,000) 
The King, lï.OOO.OOOfï. (82,400,000) 
(Sineo M. de TocqneTilla wrota, all thess salarie» of American officer», 
except that of the President, hare been somewhat enlarged ; bat the addi- 
tion made to them is not more ttuLn enough to make up for the inci«iu«d 
«xpeiues of living. — Ax. 'Ed.] 

1 have perhaps done wrong in telectiDg France as my standard of cont- 
parison. In France, as the democntiG tendendee of the nation exercise aa 
eTer-inrTcaain(r inflnence upon the govenunent, the Chamber* show a dUpo- 
lition to raise the low salaries, and to lower the principal ones. Thus, tto 
Minister of Finance, who received 160,000 ft. under the Umpire, rec^vea 
60,000 ft. in 1835; the Dirtttean-GatOraux of Finance, who thea received 
»,000 tt., now receire onl; so.OOO fr. 



«TOO ] 



Trtatary D^artnttt. 

Messenger, 

Clerk with lowest salary, . .1,00 
Clerk with highest salary, . 1,60 

Chief Clerk 2,00 

Secretary of Stale, . . . «,000 
The President, 39,000 f 



278 DEHOCRACr IN AUEBICA. 

ones often have not more than enough to procure die 
necessaries of life. The reason of this &amp;ct is easily dis* 
coverable &amp;om causes very analogous to those which I 
have just pointed out. As a democracy is unable to con- 
ceive the pleasures of the rich, or to witness them without 
envy, so an aristocracy is slow to understand the privadoni 
of the poor, or rather is unacquainted witli them. The 
poor man is not, properly speaking, of the same kind as 
the rich one ; but lie is a being of another species. An 
aristocracy therefore cares but little for the condition of its 
Bubordinate agents ; and their salaries are r^sed only when 
they refuse to serve fur too scanty a remuneration. 

It is the parsimonious conduct of democracy towards its 
principal officers, which has caused more econonucal pro- 
pensities to bo attributed to it than it really possesses. It 
is true that it scarcely allows the means of decent main- 
tenance to those who conduct its afFalrs j but it lavishes 
enormous sums to succor the wants or fecilitate the enjoy- 
ments of the people.* The money raised by taxation may 
be better employed ; but it is not economically used. In 
general, democracy gives largely to tlie people, and very 
sparingly to those who govern tliem. Tlie reverse is the 
case ill aristocratic countries, where the money of the state 
profits the persons who are at the head of affairs. 

* See Ihe AnicricaD bodgeu for llic sapport of paupers, and for gntni- 
ions insimrtion. In 1S31, orer $ 350,000 were spcnl in (bo Stale of Kcw 
Tark for the mainicnnticD of iho poor ; and at least S 1,000,000 were de- 
voted 10 public ioftniclioD. [lu 1858, the loral expenditure for the relief of 
■ha poor in the Slate of New York waa 81,491,391; and for commoii 
•ebools, S3,e53,99&amp;. — An. Ed.] Tlie Sute of New Yort contained only 
1,900,000 iubabitanu in tbc jcnr 1830, which a not more than double thô 
amount of population in tlic Difjiarlimfnl du Nord in France. [la 1&amp;5S, ifas 
population of New York was 3,4GG,!ia.] 



GOV£BNU£NT OF THE PEMOCBAGY m AUEBICA, 279 



We are liable to frequent errors in seeking among &amp;cts 
for the real inâuence wKich laws exercise upon the fiit6 of 
mankind, since nothing is more difBcult to appreciate than 
a &amp;ct. One nation ia naturally fickle and enthusiastic ; 
another is sober and calculating ; and these characteristics 
ori^ate in their physical constitution, or in remote causes 
with which we are unacquainted. 

There are nations which are fond of parade, bustle, and 
festivity, and which do not regret millions spent upon the 
gayeties of au hour. Others, on the contrary, are attached 
to more quiet enjoyments, and seem almost ashamed of 
appearing to be pleased. In some countries, high value is 
set upon the beauty of public edifices ; in others, the pro- 
ductions of art are treated with indifference, and every- 
thing which is unproductive is regarded with contempt. 
In some, renown, in others, money, is the ruling passion. 

Independently of the laws, all these causes exercise a 
powerful influence upon the conduct of the finances of 
the state. If tlie Americans never spend the money of 
the people in public festivities, it is not merely because the 
taxes are under the control of the people, but because the 
people take no delight in festivities. If they repudiate all 
ornament from their architecture, and set no store on any 
but practical and homely advantages, it is not because they 
live under democratic institutions, but because they are a 
commercial nation. The habits of private lite are coo- 
tjnued in public ; and we ought carefiilly to distinguish 
that economy which depends upon their institutions from 
that which is the natural result of then: habitudes and 



280 VBMWSBACt a iUEEICA.* 



WHETHER THE KJLFKMDiTUliB OF THB UHRED 8TA' 
BE COUFARED WITH THAT OF FRAUGB. • 

Two Points to be establÎBfaed m order to eidiiiata 11» EzienI of te FMUIb 
Charges, riz. the National Weakh, and the Bate of TkzitfMi.^Tki 
Wealth and the Chargée of I^nuice not accurately known. — Wlij An 
Wcahh and Charges of the Union cannot be accormtelj known*— ^! 
searclics of the Author to diaoo^ér the Amonnt of Taxation of 
vania. — General Symptoms which may serve to indicate tl» 
of the Pablic Chai^ges in a giten Nation. — BcsoU (tf this 
for the Union. 

Ma^y attempts have recently been made in France to 
compare the public expenditure ci that country with tho 
expenditure of tlie United States. All these attempt^ 
have, however, been fruitless ; and a few words will 8u£Sce 
to show that they could not have a satisfactory result. 

In order to estimate the amount of the public charges oî 
a people, two preliminaries are indispensable : it is neces- 
sary, in the first place, to know the wealth of that people ; 
and, in tlie second, to learn what portion of that wealth is 
devoted to the expenditure of the state. To show the 
amount of taxation without showing the resources which 
are destined to meet it, would be a fiitile task ; for it is not 
the expenditure, but the relation of the expenditure to the 
revenue, which it is desirable to know. The same rate of 
taxation which may easily be supported by a wealthy con- 
tributor will reduce a poor one to extreme misery. 

The wealth of nations is composed of several elements ; 
real property is the first of these, and pei'sonal property the 
second. It is difficult to know precisely the amount of 
cultivable land in a country, and its natural or acquired 
value ; and it is still more difficult to estimate the whole 
personal property which is' at the disposal of a nation, and 
which eludes the strictest analysis by the diversity and the 
number of shapes under which it may occur. And, in- 



GOVEBNMENT OF THE DEHOCBACT IN AMERICA. 281 

deed, we find that the nations of Europe which have been 
the loDgest civilized, including even those in which the ad- 
ministration is most centralized, have not succeeded, as yet, 
in determining the exact amount of their wealth. 

In America, the attempt has never been made ; for how 
would such an investigation be possible in a new countiy, 
where society has not yet settled into fixed and tranquil 
habits, — where the national government is not assisted by 
a multitude of agents whose exertions it can command and 
direct to one end, — and where statistics are not studied, 
because no one is able to collect the necessary documents, 
or find time to peruse them ? Thus the primary elements 
of the calculations which have been made in France can- 
not be obtained in the Union ; the relative wealth of the 
two countries is unknown : the property of the former 18 
not yet accurately determined, and no means exist of com- 
puting that of the latter. 

I consent therefore, for the moment, to abandon this 
necessary term of the comparison, and I confine myself to 
a computation of the actual amount of taxation, without 
investigating the ratio of the taxation to the revenue. 
But the reader will perceive that my task has not been 
fitcililated by tlius narrowing the circle of my researches. 

It cannot be doubted that the central administration of 
France, assisted by all the public officers who are at its dis- 
posal, might determine precisely the amount of the direct 
and indirect taxes levied upon the citizens. But this in- 
vestigation, which no private individual can undertake, haar 
not hitherto been completed by the French government, 
or, at least, its results have not been made public. We 
are acquainted with the sum total of the charges of the 
state ; we know the amount of the departmental expendi- 
ture ; but the expenses of the commune* have not been 
computed, and the total of the pubhc expenses of France 
is consequently unknown. 



282 DEMOCRACy IN AMEBICA. 

If we now turn to America, we perceive that the diffi 
culties are multiplied and enhanced. The Union publish 
an exact return of the amoimt of its expenditure; the 
budgets of tlie four and twenty States publish similar re- 
turns ; but the expenses of the counties and the towndiips 
are unknown.* 

* The Americans, as we have seen, haye four separate budgets, — ihë 
Union, the States, the counties, and the townships having each sevexaDj 
their own. During my stay in America, I made every endeavor to disr 
cover the amount of the public expenditure in the townships and countiei 
of the principal States of the Union ; and I readily obtained the budget 
of the larger townships, but found it quite impossible to procure that of the 
smaller ones. I possess, however, some documents relating to county ex- 
penses which, although incomplete, are still curious. I have to thank Mr. 
Richards, former Mayor of Philadelpliia, for the budgets of thirteen of the 
counties of Pennsylvania, — viz. Lebanon, Centre, Franklin, Fayette, Mont- 
gomery, Luzerne, Dauphin, Butler, Alleghany, Columbia, Nortliampton, 
Nortliumbcrland, and Philadelphia, — for the year 1830. Their population 
at that time consisted of 495,207 inhabitants. On looking at the map of 
Pennsylvania, it will be seen that these thirteen counties are scattered in 
every direction, and so generally affected by the causes which usually influ- 
ence the condition of a country, that they may fairly be supposed to furnish 
a correct average of the financial state of the counties of Pennsylvania in 
general. The expenses of these counties amounted, in the year 1830, to 
about $ 342,900, or nearly 69 cents for each inhabitant ; and, calculating 
that each of them contributed in the same year about $ 2.43 towards the 
Union, and about 72 cents to the State of Pennsylvania, it appears that they 

If 

each contributed, as their share of all the public expenses (except those of 
the to\\'nships), the sum of S 3.84. This calculation is doubly incomplete, 
as it applies only to a single year and to one part of the public cliargcs ; but 
it has at least the merit of not being conjectural. 

[This estimate probably errs by excess. Li the American Almanac for 
1847, a careful computation, founded on numerous returns, makes the aggre* 
gate of national exiKînditure for each inhabitant 97 cents ; of State expen- 
diture, 50 cents ; of town or city, including county, expenditure, 92 cents ; 
— making the total cost of government for each person $2.39. Mr. Liv- 
ingston, in a calculation made in 1832, estimated the cost of government in 
the United States at an average of $2.15 for each person. In 1838, Mr. 
H. C. Carey of Philadelphia estimated it at $2.19. Allowing for the dif* 
ferences created by the lapse of years, these three estimates, founded on in* 
dependent data, agree remarkably welL — Am. Ed.] 



OOTEBNMENT OF TBE SEUOGBACT Qt AHSBICA. 288 

The Federal authority cannot oblige the State govem- 
ments to throw any light upon this point; and even if 
these governments were inclined to give their «multaneoos 
aid, it may be doubted whether they are able to furnish a 
satisfactory answer. Independently of the natural difficul- 
ties of the task, the political organization of the country 
would hinder the success of their efforts. The county and 
town magistrates are not appointed by the authorities of 
the State, and are not subjected to their control. It is 
therefore allowable to suppose, that, even if the State was 
desirous of obtaining the returns which we require, its de- 
ùgn would be counteracted by the neglect of those subor- 
dinate officers whom it would be obL*ged to employ.* It is 

* Those who bare attempted to oomparo the expeneea of Fnuice sud 
America bave at odco perceived, that no auch comparûon codM be drawn 
between the total expenditures of the two coantries ; bnt Ibe; have codeiiT- 
oced to contrast detached poriiona of thi» expenditure. It ma; rcadilj ba 
ibown, that tbia second system is not at all less defective tban the first. 

ir I aciempt to compare the French bodget with the budget of the Union, 
it masl he rcmcmhered that the latter embraces mnch fewer objects [ban tha 
centralized govcramene of the former conntr;, and that the American expen- 
ditnre mnst consequcntlj be macb smaller. If I conmn the budgets of the 
departments with those of Che States which coastitnce the Union, it most be 
observed, tlmt, as the Statei hare the snperviHÏon of more nnmcrona and 
important inlcrests than the departments, their expeoditore is natnnillj 
more ronsidcrahle. As for the hndgets of the counties, nothing of the kind 
occurs in the French sjatem of finances ; and it is doahtful whether the cor- 
tespoDding expenses in France should be referred to the budget of the state, 
or to those of the muoicipol divluiona. 

Municipal expenses exist in botli countries, bnt the/ are not always analo- 
gous. In America, the townships dischai^ a variety of offices which are 
leeerved io France to the departments, or to the state. It may, moceover, 
be asked what is lo be undemood by the municipal expenses of America. 
The organizatioD of the maoidpal bodies or townshipa diSera in the several 
Stales. Are we to be guided by wbat ocean in New England or in 
Qaorgia, in Feonaylvania or in Illinois 1 

A Idnd of analogy may veiy readily be perceived between certain bndgeti 
id the two cotmtrioa ; bnl as the elemenu of which they are composed at 
w^ difièr more or leu, no &amp;ir compuiion oil be inKiuUB^&gt;&gt;Qn«Ë&amp;'àiK&amp;&gt; 



284 PEMOGBÀOT IH AMEBICA. 

in &amp;ct useless to inquire what the Americans mi^ jdo ftp» 
forward this inquiry, since it is certain that thej have hidir 
erto done nothing. Theie does not exist a sing^ Individ . 
ual ut tlie present day, in America or in Europe, who oui 
inform us what each citizen of the Union annnally ooii* 
tributes to the public charges of the nation.* 

Hence we must conclude, that it is no less difficult to 
compare the social expenditure, than it is to estimate the 
relative wealth, of France and America. I wiD even add^ 
tliat it would be dangerous to attempt this compariscm;. 
fi&gt;r when statistics are not based upon computations which 

* Even if wo knew the exact peconiaiy contribntioiu of ev«fj "Rnoàt 
«nd American citizen to the cofien of the state, we shoold onlj oome aft à 
portion of the truth. Goyemments not only demand supplies of monajr, 
bat call for personal services, which may be looked upon as equivalent to a 
given sum. When a state raises an army, besides the pay of the troope 
which is furnished by the entire nation, each soldier must give up his time, 
the value of which depends on the use he might make of it if he were not 
in the scnnce. Tlic same remark applies to the militia ; the citizen who is 
in the militia devotes a certain portion of valuable time to the maintenance 
of tlio public security, and in reality surrendei*» to the state tliose earnings 
which ho is prevented from gaining. Many other instances might be cited. 
The governments of France and America both levy taxes of this kind, which 
weigh upon the citizens ; but who can estimate with accuracy their relative 
amount in the two countries ? 

This, however, is not the last of the diihculties which prevent us from 
comparing tlie expenditure of the Union with that of Prance. The French 
go\*ernment contracts certain obligations which are not assumed by the state 
in America, and vice versa. The French government pays the cler^gy ; in 
America, the voluntary principle prevails. In America, there is a legal pro- 
vision for the poor ; in Franco, they are abandoned to the charity of the 
public. The French public officers are paid by a fixed salary; in America, 
tfaey are allowed certain perquisites. In France, contributions in labor take 
place on very few roads, — in America, u])on almost all tlie thorooghfiuep : 
in the former country, the roads are free to all travellers ; in the latter, turn- 
pikes abound. All these difibrenccs in tlie manner in which taxes are levied 
in the two countries enhance the difficulty of comparing their expenditure ; 
for there are certain expenses which the citizens would not be subject to, oi 
wbich would at any laxe be leas considerable, if the state did noi findfirtaks 
fict in their name. 



GOVERNME^TT Of THE DEHOCBACT IN AUEBICA. 285 

UK strictly accnrate, they mblead instead of guiditig aright. 
The mind is easÛy imposed upon by the affectation of ex- 
actitude wliich marks even the misstatements of statistics ; 
and it adopts with confidence the errors which are appar- 
elled in the forms of mathematical truth. 

We abandon, therefore, the numerical investigation, with 
the hope of meeting with data of another kind. In the 
absence of positive documents, we may form an opinion as 
to the proportion which the taxation of a people hears to 
its real wealth, by observing whetlier its external appeaiy 
ance is flourishing ; whether, after having pud the dnes of 
the state, the poor man retains the means of subsistence, 
and the rich tlie means of enjoyment ; and whether both 
classes seem contented with their position, seeking, bow- 
erer, to ameliorate it bj perpetual exertions, so that industry 
is never in want of capital, nor capital unemployed by in- 
dustry. The observer who draws his inferences from these 
signs will, undoubtedly, be led to the conclusion, that the 
American of the United States contributes a much smaller 
portion of his income to the state than the citizen of 
France. Nor, indeed, can the result be otherwise. 

A portion of the French debt is the consequence of two 
invasions ; and the Union has no similar calamity to fear. 
The position of France obliges it to maintain a large stand- 
ing army ; the isolation of the Union enables it to have 
only six thousand soldiers. The French have a fleet of 
three hundred sail ; the Americans have [1832] only fifty- 
two vessels. How, then, can the inhabitant of the Union 
be taxed as hea^'ily as the inhabitant of France? No par- 
allel can be drawn between the finances of two countries 
80 differently situated. 

It is by examining what actually takes place in the Un- 
ion, and not by comparing the Union with France, that we 
can judge whether the American government is really 
economical. On casting my eyes ovei the âïSenoX '»- 



286 CEHOORAOr IT imHCUL 

publics which fonn the confèdention, I pcnàve tint AA 
governments often lack penererance in àuâr xmântJàag^ 
and that thef exercise no steady contrd aver the bmé 
whom they employ. I natoially infer that thc7 rant oAChi 
spend the money of the pe&lt;^e to no purpose, or conAmw 
more of it than îa really necessary fer their ent e rprises. 
Faithful to its popular origin, the goTcmment males greil 
efforts to satisfy the wants of the lower orders, to typta to 
them the road to power, and to difiîué knowledge and 
comfort among them. The poor are maintained, '"""«"t 
sums ore annually devoted to pahlic inttmction, aU servieei 
arc remunerated, and the hnmblest agents are libenUy 
paid. This kind of government appears to be nsefhl and 
rational, but I am constrained to admit that it is expensve. 

Wlierevcr the poor direct public af&amp;irs, and dispose of 
the national resources, it appears certain that, as tliey profit 
by Hie expenditure of the state, they will often augment 
that expenditure. 

I conclude, therefore, without having recourse to inaccu- 
rate statistics, and without hazanling a comparison whidi 
might prove incorrect, that the democratic government of 
the Americans is not a cheap government, as is sometimes 
asserted ; and I fear not to predict tliat, if the United States 
are ever involved in serious diffîculties, taxation will speed- 
ily be raised as high there as in most of the aristocracies or 
the monarchies of Eim)pe. 



In Aristocmcics, Rulcn sometimes cndcuTor to coirapt tlio People. — In 
Deiuocrai-ics, lialers frequcntlj sliow tliemsclvcs lo bo comipl. — In tfaa 
fonncr, Iliuir Virât are directly prcjudli-inl to tlie Morality of ths FMple. 
— Ill llio lallcr, their indirect Influença is BtilE more pcmii-ioiu. 

A niSTiNcmos must be made, when aristocracies and 
(/emocracies mutually accuse each other of £icilitating coi^ 



aOVEHNMENT OF THB DBMOCBACT IN AMERICA. .287 

mption. In aristocratic govemmenta, those who are placed 
Bt the head of affaira are rich men, who are desirous only 
of power. In democracies, statesmen are poor, and have 
their fortunes to make. The consequence is, that, in ari^ 
tocratic states, the rulers are rarely accessible to corrupt 
tion, and have little craving (or money ; whilst the reverse 
is the case in democratic nations. 

But in aristocracies, as those who wish to attain the head 
of aflïiirs possess considerable wealth, and as the number 
of persons by whose assistance they may rise is compara* 
lively small, tlie government is, if I may so speak, put up 
at auction. In democracies, on the contrary, those who 
are covetous of power are seldom wealthy, and the number 
of those who confer power is extremely great. Perhaps, in 
democracies, the number of men who miglit be bought is 
not smaller, but buyers are rarely to be found ; and, b&amp;- 
fides, it would he necessary to buy so many persons at 
once, that the attempt would be useless. 

Many of the men who have governed France during the 
last forty years have been accused of making tlieir fortunes 
at the expense of the state or its allies ; a reproach which 
was rarely addressed to the public men of tlie old mon- 
archy. But in France, the practice of bribing electors is 
almost unknown, whilst it is notoriously and publicly car- 
ried on in England. In the United States, I never heard 
any one accused of spending his wealth in buying votes ; 
but I have often heard the probity of public officers ques- 
tioned ; still more frequently have I heard their success 
attributed to low intrigues and immoral practices. 

If, then, the men who conduct an aristocracy sometimes 
endeavor to corrupt the people, the heads of a democracy 
are themselves corrupt. In the former case, the morality 
of the peo|)]e is directly assailed ; in the latter, an indirect 
influence is exercised which ia still more to be dreaded. 

As the rulers of democratic nations eie lAiaasiV À'9!«^ 



288 DEHOCBAOr n JDOUa. 

suspected oC dishonorable oondoet, thef in Mime i 
lend the authority of the gOTemnMat to the bm p 
of which they are accused. They tfaoi afford t 
examples, which discourage the Btmg^ea of virtiioiu îniln 
pendcncc and cloak with lathoritj the lecret deaigni of 
wickedness. If it be asserted that evil pasûona are ibimd 
in dl ranks of socie^ ; that lliey ascend the throne hf 
hereditary right ; and that we may £nd deapicahle chane- 
tors at the head of aristocratie nations, as well as in-^Iie 
bosom of a democracy, — the plea has but littJe weî^it ia 
my estimation. The corruption of men who have casoally 
risen to power hoa a coarBe and rnlgar infection in t^ 
wliicli renders it dangerous to the multitude. On the coi^ 
trory, tliere is a kind of aristocratic refinement, and an air 
of grandeur, in tiie depravity of the great, whicli freqnraitiy 
prevent it from spreading abroad. 

The people can never penetrate into the dark labyrinth 
of court intrigue, and will always have difficulty in detecU 
ing the turpitude which lurks under elegant manners, re- 
fined tastes, and graceful language. But to pillage the 
public purse, and to sell the favors of the state, are arta 
which the meanest villain can understand, and hope to 
practise in liis turn. 

Besides, what is to be feared ia, not so much the immo 
rality of the great, as tlie fact that immorality may lead to 
greatness. In a democracy, private citizens see a man of 
their own rank in life, who rises from that obscure position 
in a few years to riches and power ; the spectacle excites 
their surprise and their en^y ; and they are led to inquire 
how the person who was yesterday their equal, is to-day 
tlieir ruler. To attribute his rise to his talents or liis vir- 
tues is unpleasant ; for it is tacitly to acknowledge that 
they are themselves less virtuous or less tjilcnted tlion he 
iras. Tliey are therefore led, and oflen tightly, to imputa 
bîê fioccess nuûnly to some of his vices; and an odious 



GOVEBNUEKT. OF THE DSUO(au.cr DI AUEBIOA. SS9 

oonaecUon is thus formed between die ideas of toi]»- 
tode and power, nnworthineBB and success, atilit]r and 
diahoDor. 

£FF0aT8 OF WHICH A. DEHOCSACT 18 CAPABLB. 

Tbo TToion hu only had one SDuggle hitherto for ita Existence. — Enlhn- 
sium at the Commencement of the War. — IndiKrence towarda iti 
Close. — Difflcullj of establilhing Mili iniy CoTucription or Impms- 
meat of Seamea in Americbi — Wh; a Demooslic People ii ku capa- 
ble than an; other of luitained Effijrt 

I WARN the reader that I here speak of a govemnient 
which follows the real will of the people, and not of a gov- 
ernment which simply commands in their name. Kothing 
is so irresistible as a tyrannical power commanding in the 
name of the people, because, whilst wielding the moral 
power which belongs to the will of the greater number, it 
acts at the same tune with the quickness and perùatence of 
a single man. 

It is difBcult to say what degree of effort a democratic 
government may be capable of making on the occurrence 
of a national crisis. Ko great democratic republic has 
hitherto existed in the world. To style the oligarchy 
which ruled over France in 1793 by that name, would be 
an insult to the republican form of government. The 
United States afford the first example of the kind. 

The American Union has now subsbted for half a cen- 
tury, and its existence has only once been attacked, 
namely, during the War of Independence. At the com- 
mencement of that long war, extraordinary efforts were 
made with enthusiasm for the service of the country.* 

* Oae of the moat aing^olar, in my opinion, was the reaolation which Iha 
Americans took of temporarilj abandoning ibe hm of lea. Those who 
know that men uAiall; ding more to their habita than to their life, will 
doobtleaa admin thii great tboogli obfcore noi&amp;ce, whtch wm mvla bj « 
whola people. 

13 % 



tfcMt M iIm contest was pndongad, pnvita — IflJm— bqgtt 
(V i\Mt(&gt;|H»tu'. No money tu brouf^ mto tlw pnUic tnM&gt; 
un- ; têw [«emits could be niied fiw die anny ; tlie peupla 
atill wished to acquire independence, bnt voold not om- 
|tluv the only means by which it could be obtained. "Tax 
laws," suys Hamiltrai, m the Fedenlist (No. 12), "haTe ia 
vain been multiplied ; new methods to enforce the coUee&gt; 
tion have in vain been tried ; the public expectation bas 
boon uniformly di8app&lt;Hnted ; and the treasuries of tlie 
States have remained empty, ^e popular system of ad- 
ministration inherent in the natore of popular goTemmen^ 
coinciding with the real scarcity c^ money inddent to ■ 
languid and mutilated state of trade, has hitherto defiwted 
every experiment for extensive collections, and has at 
length taught the different legislatures the folly of attempt- 
ing them." 

Since that period, the United States have not had a sin- 
gle serious war to carry on. In order, therefore, to know 
wliat sacrifices democratic nations may impose upon them- 
selves, we must wait until the American people are obliged 
to put half their entire income at the disposal of the gov- 
ernment, as was done by the English ; or to send forth a 
twentieth part of its population to the field of battle, as 
was done by France. 

In America, the conscription is unknown, and men are 
induced to enlist by bounties.* The nodons and habits of 
the people of the United States are so opposed to compul- 
sory recruiting, that I do not think it can ever be sanc- 
tioned by the laws. What is termed the conscription in 
France, is assuredly the heaviest tax upon the people ; yet 
how could a great Continental war be carried on without 

* It is not entirclj correct to say that tbe conscription ia nnlcnown in ths 
United Stales. Tioopa trers drafted fiom tho militia occasionallj daring 
the ReTolntion, and in the course of the war with England in IBIS. — Ah. 



GOVEKNUENT OF THE DEUOCaXCT IN ÂHEBICA. 291 

it? The Americam hare not adopted the British practice 
of impressing seamen, and they have nothing which cor- 
responds to the French system of maritime conscription ; 
Uie navy, as well as the merchant service, is supplied by 
Tolimteers. But it is not easy to conceive how a people 
can sustain a great maritime war, without having recourse 
to one or the other of these two systems. Indeed, the 
Union, which has already fought with honor upon the seas, 
has never had a numerous fleet, and the equipment of ita 
few vessels has always been veiy expensive. 

I have heard American statesmen confess, that the Ui&gt;* 
ion will with difficult muntain its power on the seas, 
without adopting the system of impressment or maritime 
conscription ; but the difficulty is to induce the people, 
who exercise the supreme authority, to submit to such 
measures. 

It is incontestable that, in times of danger, a free people 
display far more energy than any other. But I inchne to 
beheve that thb is especially true of those free nations in 
which the aristocratic element preponderates. Democracy 
appears to me better adapted for the conduct of society in 
times of peace, or for a sudden effort of remarkable vigor, 
than for the prolonged endurance of the great storms 
which beset the political existence of nations. The reason 
is very evident ; enthusiasm prompts men to expose them- 
selves to dangers and privations; but without reflection, 
they will not support them long. There is more calcular 
tion even in the impulses of braveiy, than is generally 
supposed ; and although the first efforts are made by pas- 
sitm alone, perseverance is maintained only by a distinct 
▼iew of what one is fighting for. A portion of what is 
dear to us is hazarded, in order to save the remainder. 

But it is this clear perception of the future, founded 
upon judgment and experience, which is frequently want- 
ing in democracies. The pécule are moie «çX. \jo W^ 'Uoo^ 



292 DEMOCBior m iMmoi:. 

to reason ; and if th^ pr ow nt ÉMPiiiiHj,» axa gnat, it û to 
be feared that the still greater nififêriiigi «tteDdant vpaù 
defeat will be forgotten. 

Another cause tends to render the eSarta ct a àtam^ 
cratic government lees perserering limn llioae of an am- 
tocracy. Kot only are the lower less awake than the 
bi^er orders to the good or evil chanoee of the fntore, bat 
they suffer more acutely frtxn present privationi. 1^ 
noble exposes his life, indeed, bat the chance eS ginxj ii 
equal to the chance of harm. If be sacnfices a Urge pco^ 
tion of his income to the atote, he deprives himself fiir m 
time of some of the pleasnres of affluence ; bat to the poor 
man, death has ao glory, and the impoets which aze 
merely irksome to the rich often deprive him of the necee- 
saries of life. 

This relative weakness of democratic republics in critical 
times ia, perhaps, the greatest obstacle to tlie foundation of 
sach a republic in Europe. In order that one such state 
ahould exist in the European world, it would be necessary 
that similar institutions should be simultaneously intro- 
duced into all the other nations. 

I am of opinion that a democratic government tends, in 
the long run, to increase the real strength of society ; but 
it can never combine, upon a single point and at a given 
time, so much power as an aristocracy or an absolute mon- 
archy. If a democratic country remained during a whole 
century subject to a repubhcan government, it would prob- 
ably, at the end of that period, be richer, more populous, 
and more prosperous, than the neighboring despotic states. 
But during that century, it would often have incurred the 
risk of being conqnered by them. 



G07EBNMENT OF THE DEUOORAOT IN AMERICA. 28B 



BEUHX&gt;HTKOL OF THE AHBRICAK DSUOoaACT. 

The American People acqnieace ilowlj, and lometimes do not scqnieace, la 
what a beneficial to ita Interali. ■~ The FanlU of the AmericMl De- 
mocracy are, fyr the most part, reparable. 

The difficulty which a democracy finds in eonqnering 
the passions and subduing tiia desires of the moment fr(Ha 
a view to the future, b oI»errable in the United States in 
the most trivial things. The people, surrounded by flat- 
terers, find great difficulty in snrmounting tb^ incline 
tione ; whenever they are required to undergo a priratitHi 
or any inconvenience, even to attain an end sanctioned by 
their own rational conviction, they almost always refuse at 
first to comply. The deference of the Americans to the 
laws has been justly applauded ; but it must be added, that, 
in America, the legislation is made by the people and fiir 
the people. Consequently, in the United States, the law 
fiivors those classes which elsewhere are most interested in 
evading it. It may therefore be supposed, that an offen- 
sive law, of which the majority should not see the imme- 
diate utility, would either not be enacted or not obeyed. 

In America, there is no law agmnst fraudulent bank- 
ruptcies, not because they are few, but because they are 
many. The dread of being prosecuted as a bankrupt is 
greater in the minds of the majority tlian the fear of being 
ruined by the bankruptcy of others ; and a sort of guil^ 
tolerance is extended by the public conscience to an offence 
which every one condemns in his individual capacity. In 
the new States of the Southwest, the citizens generally 
take justice into their own hands, and murders are of fre- 
quent occurrence. This arises from the rude manners and 
the ignorance of the inhabitants of those deserts, who do 
not perceive the ntility of strengthening the law, and who 
prefer duels to prosecutions. 



204 DXHOOBAor ni ambhu. 

Some one oliserTed to me one dAj, in Philadelplm, tint 
almoat all crimes in Americm are caosed by the ■bwe «f 
intoxicating liqaors, which the h&gt;wer cUssea can procme in 
great abundance fix&gt;m their cheapness. " How comes it»' 
said I, " that y&lt;m do not pnt a dnty upon brandy T " 
" Our legislators," rei&lt;Hned my informant, " hare fre- 
qaently thought of this expedient; bat the task is diffi- 
cult: a revolt might be apprehended; and the membe» 
who should vote for mch a lav would be sure of loaing 
iheir seats." " Whence I ant to infer," replied I, " tliat 
drunkards are the majority in yonr country, and âiat tem- 
perance is unpopular." 

When these things are pointed out to the American 
statesmen, they answer, " Leave it to time, and experi- 
ence of the evil will teach the people their true interests." 
This is frequently true ; though a democracy is more liable 
to error than a monarch or a body of nobles, the chances 
of its regaining the right path, when once it has acknowl- 
edged its mistake, are greater also ; because it is rarely 
embarrassed by interests which conflict with those of Ae 
majority, and resist the authority of reason. But a de- 
mocracy can obtain truth only as the result of experience ; 
and many nations may perish wliilst they are awaiting the 
consequences of their errors. The great privilege of the 
Americans does not consist in being more enlightened than 
other nations, but in being able to repair the faults they 
may commit. 

It must be added, that a democracy cannot profit by 
past experience, unless it has arrived at a certain pitch of 
knowle&lt;ige and civilization. There are nations whose first 
education lias been so vicious, and whose character pre- 
sents so strange a mixture of passion, ignorance, and erro- 
neous notions upon all subjects, that they are unable to 
discern the causes of their own wretchedness, and they fell 
a sacrifice to ills of which tliey are ignorant. 



GOVEBNHENT OF THE DEHOCBACT IK AHEEICA. 286 

I have crossed vast tracts of country formerly inhabited 
by powerful Indian nations who are now extinct ; I have 
passed some time among remnants of tribes, which wit- 
ness the daily decline of their numbers, and of the gloiy 
of their independence ; and I have heard these Indians 
themselves anticipate the impending doom of their race. 
Every European can perceive means which would rescue 
these unfortunate beings from the destruction otherwise 
inevitable. They done are insensible to the remedy ; they 
feel the woes which year after year heaps upon thor 
heads, but they wi)l perish to a man without accepting 
the cure. Force would have to be employed to compel 
them to live. 

The incessant revolutions which have convulsed the 
South American states for the last quarter bf a century 
are regarded witii astonishment, and we are constantly 
hoping that, erelong, they will return to what is called 
dieir natural slate. But who can aiErm that revolutions 
are not, at the present time, the most natural state of the 
South American Spaniards ? In that country, society is 
struggling in the depths of an abyss whence its own efforts 
are insuflicient to rescue it. The inhabitants of that fiiir 
portion of the Western hemisphere seem obstinately bent 
on the work of destroying each other. If they fall into 
momentary quiet, from exhaustion, that repose soon pre- 
pares them for a new frenzy. When I consider tlieir con- 
dition, alternating between misery and crime, I am tempt- 
ed to believe that despotism itself would be a blessing to 
them, if it were possible that the words despotism and 
Uessing could ever be united in my mind. 



Dtamioa Sim M &amp;• IioidlB M1(T «r te IMHd Bmm by irid*t*ft 
« loo^fat M Ii|ti IB ihi CiMdact of Amip AiUn j Ihalr A*- 



&gt;Vb ha^-« seen àtat the Federal Conidtntkn ii 
pmnanent direction of the external intemts of Ae aatÎM 
to tht' Preudent and the Senate,* which tenda in soms d»* 
m&lt;e to detach the generd fbrragn policy of the Union fron 
Uio diroct conttYil of the people. It cannot, tbenfim, bfe 
âssfrted with truth, that the foreign aâairs of Ute state né 
conducted by the democracy. 

The policy of America recdyed a direction from two 
men, — Washington and Jefferson, — which it ohserves to 
the present Jay. Washington said, in the admirable Fare- 
well Address which he made to his fellow-citizens, and 
which may be regarded as his political testament : — 

" The great rule of conduct for us in regard to foreign 
natiuns is, in extending our commercial relations, to have 
with tliem as little political connection as possible. So fer 
as we have already formed engagements, let them be fiil- 
fillod with perfect good iàith. Here let us stop. 

"Europe has a set of primary interests, which to ns 
have none, or a very remote relation. Hence she must 
be engaged in frequent controversies, the causes of which 
are essentially foreign to our concerns. Hence, therefore, 
it must be unwise in ua to implicate ourselves, by artifi- 
cial ties, in the ordinary vicissitudes of her politics, or the 

• "The rresidcnt," tajs llio Constilntion, Art. 11. Bed. S, § a, "ihall 
have power, l&gt;v nnd witli the advira and romiciit of Ule Senate, to nuke 
Owalies. provided tnro lliirda of the Senntore pre»enl eoncor." The reader 
!■ reminded ihni tlic Senators are returned for a term uf six jcars, and thai 
fbty ans ehu^suD bv the legùliUum of each State. 



OOVEBNMENT Of THE DEUOCBACT IN AUEEICA. 297 

ordinaiy combinations and collisions of her friendships or 
enmities. 

" Our detached and distant situation invites and enables 
oa to pursue a different course. If we remain one people, 
under an efficient government, the period is not firr off 
when we may defy material injury from external annoys 
ance ; when we may take such an attitude as will cause 
the neutrality we may at any time resolve npon to be 
scrupulously respected ; when belligerent Dations, under 
the impossibihty of mailing acquisitions npon us, will not 
lightly hazard the giving us provocation ; when we m^ 
choose peace or war, as our interest, guided by justice, 
shall counsel. 

" Why forego the advantages of so peculiar a situation ? 
Why quit our own to stand upon foreign ground ? Why, 
by interweaving our destiny with that of any part of Eu- 
rope, entangle our peace and prosperity in the t&lt;Mls of 
European ambition, rivalship, interest, humor, or caprice ? 

" It is our true policy to steer clear of permanent alli- 
ances with any portion of the foreign world, — so far, I 
mean, as we are now at liberty to do it ; for let me not be 
understood as capable of patronizing infidelity to existing 
engagements. I hold the maxim no less applicable to pub- 
he than to private affairs, that honesty is always the best 
policy. I repeat it, therefore, let those engagements be 
observed in their genuine sense ; but in my opinion it is 
unnecessary, and would be unwise, to extend them. 

" Taking care always to keep ourselves, by suitable ev 
tablishmcnts, in a respectable defensive posture, we may 
safely trust to temporary alliances for extraordinary emer- 
gencies." 

In a previous part of the same Address, Washington 
makes this admirable and just remark: "The nation which 
indulges towards another an halntual hatred, or an babit- 
ual fondness, is in some degree a slave. It û &amp; «\&amp;'v« \o V&amp; 



animosity or to its Bfiectioa, tsÛier of irtàHi k ■ 
lca&lt;l it astray from its dn^ and its mterest." 

The [tulitical condoct &lt;^ Washington was alwi^ gnided 
bv tlii'si' maxims. He Bncceeded in T"'"*""'"g lua rtnnn 
In* it) 11 xt^^ &lt;^ peace whilst all the other nations of Uw 
pliiW wore at war ; and he laid it down aa a fondamenlal 
tUH'triiio, that the tme interest ol the Americans c 
in a perfect neutrality with regard to the întenutl di 
vitinx of the European powers. 

Jt'tierson went still fiirther, and introdnced this * 
mnxirn into the policy &lt;^ the nnion,~that "the J 
ieaiiH oi]ght never to solicit any privil^ea from fcidpi 
nntidiia, in order not to be obliged to grant similar privt 
lejjes themselves." 

These two principles, so plain and jnst as to be easily 
nnilorstood by the people, have greatly simplified the for- 
nign policy of the United States. As the Union takes do 
part in the affairs of Europe, it has, properly speaking, no 
foreign interests to discuss, since it has, as yet, no powerful 
neighbors on the American continent. The country b as 
much removed from the passions of the Old World by its 
position as by its wishes, and it is neither called upon to 
repudiate nor to espouse them ; whilst the dissensions of 
the New World are still concealed witliin the bosom of the 
future. 

The Union is free fivm all pre-existing obligations ; it 
can profit by the experience of the old nations of Europe, 
without being obliged, as they are, to make the best of the 
past, and to adapt it to their present circumstances. It is 
not, like tlicm, compelled to accept an immense inheritance 
bequeatlied by their forefethers, — an inheritance of gloiy 
mingled witli calamities, and of alliances conflicting with 
national antipathies. Tlie foreign policy of the United 
States is eminently expectant ; it consists more in abstaio» 
iiig than in acting. 



OOTEBKMEMT OF THE DEMOCRACT DI AUERICA. 399 

It is therefore very difEcolt to aacertdn, at present, what 
degree of sagacity the American democracy will display in 
the conduct of the foreign policy of the conntiy; upon 
this point, its adversaries as well as its friends must sn»- 
pend their judgment. As for myself, I do not hesitate to 
say that it is especially in the conduct of their foreign rela- 
tions that democracies appear to me decidedly inferior to 
other governments. Experience, instruction, and habit al- 
most always succeed in creating in a democracy a homely 
species of practical wisdom, and that science of the petty 
occurrences of life which is called good sense. Good sense 
may suffice to direct the ordinary course of society ; and 
amongst a people whose education is completed, the advan- 
tages of democratic liberty in the internal affairs of the 
country may more than compensate for the evils inherent 
in a democratic government. But it is not always so in 
the relations with foreign nations. 

Foreign politics demand scarcely any of those qualities 
which are peculiar to a democracy ; they require, on the 
contrary, the perfect use of almost all those in which it ii 
deficient. Democracy is favorable to the increase of the 
internal resources of a state ; it difiiises wealth and com- 
fort, promotes public spirit, and fortifies the respect for law 
in all classes of society : all these are advantages which 
have only an indirect influence over the relations which 
one people bears to another. But a democracy can only 
with great difficulty regulate the details of an important 
undertaking, persevere in a fixed design, and work out it« 
execution in spite of serious obstacles. It cannot combine 
its measures with secrecy, or await their consequences with 
patience. These are qualities which more especially be- 
long to an individual or an aristocracy ; and they are pre- 
cisely the qualities by which a nation, like an individual, 
attains a dominant position. 

If, on the contraiy, we observe the natural ds^cK^X^ &lt;jli 



800 DSMOORAOT Of àMEBDA. 



&gt; fw 



aristocracy, we ahall find dwt, compHradTvIy ipQakfaig^ 
they do not injure the directkm of the cxtenMd afiUci .«Cl 
the state. The capital ftnlt of which aristocradea naj fan 
accused is, that they work fer theouelveB, and not toot tb» 
people. In foreign politics, it is rare for the interaat of An 
aristocracy to be distinct firom that of the people. 

The propensity which induces democradea to dbej iflfc» 
pulse rather than prudence, and to abandon a matoxe dia^ 
sign for the gratification of a momentary pasnioin, waa 
clearly seen in America on the breaking oat &lt;^ the Fran^^ 
Revolution. It was then as evidmt to the simpleat cafMMai- 
ty, as it is at the present time, that the interest of lifav 
Americans forbade them to take any part in the ooniariE 
which was about to deluge Europe with blood, but which 
could not injure their own country. But the sympathies 
of the people declared themselves with so much violence in 
fiivor of France, that nothing but the inflexible character 
of Wasliington, and the immense popularity which he en- 
joyed, could have prevented the Americans from declaring 
war against England. And even then, the exertions which 
the austere reason of that great man made to repress the 
generous but imprudent passions of his fellow-citizens near- 
ly deprived him of the sole recompense wliich he ever 
claimed, — that of his country's love. The majority rep- 
robated his policy, but it was afterwards approved by the 
whole nation.* 

* Sco the fifth volume of Marshall's " Life of Washington." " In a 
government constituted like that of the United States/' ho says, " it is im- 
possible for the chief magistrate, however firm he may be, to oppose for any 
length of time the torrent of popular opinion ; and the prevalent opinion of 
tliat day seemed to incline to war. In fact, in the session of Congress held 
at the time, it was frequently seen that Washington had lost the m^joritJ in 
the House of Representatives." The violence of the language used against 
him in public was extreme, and, in a political meeting, they did not scmple 
to compare him indirectly with the traitor Arnold. " By the opposition," 
iajB Manhall, " the friends of the administration were declared to be an 



GOVERNUENT OF TBE DEUOCBAOT M AHEBICA. 801 

K the Constitution ami the &amp;Tor of the public had not 
intrusted the direction of the foreign affairs of the coontiy 
to Washington, it is certain that the Americiin nation 
would at that time have adopted the very measures which 
it now condemns. 

Almost all the nations which have exercised a powerful 
influence upon the destinies of the world, by conceiving, 
following out, and executing vast designs, Jrom the Romans 
t» the EngUsh, have been governed by aristocratic insti- 
tutions. Nor will this be a anbject of wonder, when we 
recollect that nodiing in the world has so absolnte a fixity 
of purpose as an aristocracy. The mass of the people may 
be led astray by ignorance or passion ; the mind of a king 
may be biassed, and made to vacillate in his designs, and, 
besides, a king is not immortal. But an aristocratic body 
is too numerous to be led astray by intrigue ; and yet not 
nmnerous enough to yield readily to the intoxication of 
anreflecting passion. An aristocracy is a firm and ea- 
Hghtened individual that never dies. 

■rigtocnlic and corrupt ftccion, who, from a deaire to iotrodnce monuclij, 
were hoatite lo France, and nnder the influence of Britain ; that thej were 
A paper nobility, whose eiti«me setiaibilit; at «very meware «bich thrMt- 
ened the fiindi induced a tame labminiDn to iiynrica and inialU wtiich thn 
faUeretti and honor of the nation reqnind them to renit." 



I 



miOCIAOT or AUHOL 



CHAPTER XIV, 



BEFORE entering upon the present chi^rter, I nmrt 
remind the reader of what I have more than once ob* 
served in this bode. The political constitation of the United 
States appears to me to be one of the forms of govrarmient 
which a democracy may adopt ; but I do not regard the 
American Constitution as the best, or as the only one, 
which a democratic people may establish. In showing the 
advantages which the Americans derive from the govern- 
ment of democracy, I am therefore very iàr from affirming, 
or believing, that similar advantages can be obtained only 
from the same laws. 



OEIŒRAL TENDENCY OF THE LAWS tJNDER THE AHEBICAV 
DEMOCaACT, AND INSTINCTS OP THOSE WHO APPLY 
THEH. 

DeTecta of a Democratic GoTcrnmcnt easf to be discorered. — In AdTui- 
tagcï discerned on]]r by long OburraiioD. — Dcmocncj in America 
often inespcrt, bat the general Tendency of tbe Lavi is ainatagaoïiM. 
— In the American Democracy, Pablic Officen bave no Fennanenl In. 
tercsti diatiDct from tho«e of the Majority. — Bcialcs of thi« Stue of 
Things. 

The defects and weaknesses of a democratic govern- 
ment may readily be discovered ; they are demonstrated by 
flagrant instances, whilst its salntary influence is insensible, 
and, BO to speak, occult. A glance suffices to detect its 



ADVAHTAOES OF DEHOCKACT. 808 

fiuilts, bat its good qualities can be discerned only hj long 
observation. The laws of the American democracy are 
frequently defective or incomplete ; they sometimes attack 
vested rights, or sanction others which are dangerous to 
the community ; and even if they were good, their fre- 
quency would still be a great evil. How comes it, then, 
that the American republics prosper and continue ? 

In the consideration of laws, a distinction must be care- 
fully observed between the end at which they aim, and the 
means by which they pursue that end ; between their al&gt;- 
solute and their relative excellence. If it be the intention 
of the le^Iator to &amp;vor the interests of the minority at 
the expense of the majority, and if the measures he takes 
are so combined us to accomplish the object he has in view 
with the least possible expense of time and exertion, the 
law may be well drawn up, although its purpose is bad ; 
and the more efficacious it is, the more dangerous it 
will be. 

Democratic laws generally tend to promote the wel&amp;re 
of the greatest possible number ; for they emanate from 
the majority of the citizens, who are subject to error, but 
. who cannot have an interest opposed, to their own advan- 
tage. The laws of an aristocracy tend, on the contrary, 
to concentrate wealth and power in the hands of the 
minority ; because an aristocracy, by its very nature, con- 
stitutes a minority. It may therefore be asserted, as a 
general proposition, that the purpose of a democracy in 
its legislation is more useM to humanly than that of an 
aristocracy. This is, however, the sum total of its ad- 
vantages. 

Aristocracies are infinitely more expert in the science of 
legislation than democracies ever can be. They are pos- 
sessed of a self-control which protects them from the error» 
of temporary excitement ; and they form fer^reaching de- 
signs, which they know how to mature till Bl ^lotiliiA 



804 DEMOCRACY IN AMERICA. 

opportunity arrives. Aristocratic govemment proceeds 
with the dexterity of art ; it understands how to make the 
collective force of all its laws converge at the same time to 
a given point. Such is not the case with democracies, 
whose laws are almost always ineffective or inopportune. 
The means of democracy are therefore more imperfect than 
those of aristocracy, and the measures which it unwittin^y 
adopts are frequently opposed to its own cause ; but the 
object it has in view is more useful. 

Let us now imagine a community so organized by nap 
ture, or by its constitution, that it can support the tcann- 
tory action of bad laws, and that it can await, without 
destruction, the general tendency of its legislation : we shaS 
then conceive how a democratic government, notwithstand- 
ing its faults, may be best fitted to produce the prosperity 
of this community. This is precisely what has occurred 
in the United States; and I repeat, what I have before 
remarked, that the great advantage of the Americans con- 
sists in their being able to commit faults which they ma 
afterwards repair. 

An analogous observation may be made respecting pu 
lie officers. It is easy to perceive that the American d 
mocracy frequently errs in tlie choice of the indi\'iduals 
whom it intrusts the power of the administration ; but i 
is more difficult to say why the state prospers imder thei 
rule. In the fii'st place, it is to be remarked, that if, in m 
democratic state, the governors have less honesty and les^ 
capacity than elsewhere, the governed are more enlight- 
ened and more attentive to their interests. As the people 
in democracies are more constantly vigilant in their affairs, 
and more jealous of their rights, they prevent their repre- 
sentatives from abandoning that general line of conduct 
which their own interest prescribes. In the second place, 
it must be remembered, that, if the democratic magistrate is 
more apt to misuse his power, he possesses it for a shorter 




ADVAMTAQES OF DEUOOUCT. 305 

time. But there is yet another reason which is still more 
general and conclusive. It is do doubt of importance to 
the welfare of nations that they should be governed by 
men of talents and virtue ; but it is perhaps still more im- 
portant for them that the interests of those men should not 
differ from the interests of the community at large ; for if 
mcb were the case, thrâr virtues might become almost use- 
less, and their talents might be turned to a bad account. I 
have s^d that it b important that the interests of the per- 
sons in authority should not differ from or oppose the in- 
terests of the community at large ; hut I do not insist upoa 
their having the same interests as the whAe population, 
because I am not aware that such a state of things ever 
existed in any country. 

No political form has hitherto been discovered which is 
equally favorable to the prosperity and the development of 
all the classes into which society is divided. These classes 
continue to form, as it were, so many distinct communities 
in the same nation ; and experience has shown that it is no 
less dangerous to place the &amp;te of these classes exclusively 
in the hands of any one of them, than it is to make one 
people the arbiter of the distiny of another. When the 
rich alone govern, the interest of the poor is always endan- 
gered ; and when the poor make the laws, that of the rich 
incurs very serious risks. The advantage of democracy 
does not consist, therefore, as baa sometimes been asserted, 
in fevoring tlie prosperity of all, but simply in contributing 
to the well-being of the greatest number. 

The men who are intrusted with the direction of public 
tSaln in the United States are frequently inferior, both in 
capacity and morality, to those whom an aristocracy would 
raise to power. But their interest is identified and con- 
founded Willi that of the majority of their fellow-cidzens. 
They may frequently be taitlJess, and frequently mistakes; 
bnt they will never systematically adopt a line of « 



806 DEMOGBACT Ul AMEUGA. 

hostile to the majority ; and th^ cannot ffre a âangamia 
or exclusive tendency to the goremment. 

The maladministration of a democratic ma^^ttmtBi biomk 
over, is an isolated fiwt, which has mfluonce only dmiag 
the short period for which he is elected. Corraption and 
incapacity do not act as common interests, which may con- 
nect men permanently with one another. A cormpt or 
incapable magistrate wiU not concert his measures with 
another magistrate, simply because the latter is as corrapt 
and incapable as himself; and these two men will neyer 
unite their endeavors to promote the corruption and inap* 
titude of their remote posterity. The ambition and the 
manœuvres of the one will serve, on the contrary, to mir 
mask the other. The vices of a ma^trate, in democratic 
states, are usually wholly personal. 

But imder aristocratic governments, public men are 
swayed by the interest of their order, which, if it is some- 
times confounded with the interests of the majority, is very 
frequently distinct from them. This interest is the com- 
mon and lasting bond which unites them together ; it in- 
duces them to coalesce and combine their efforts to attain 
an end which is not always the happiness of the greatest 
number : and it serves not only to connect the persons in 
authority witli each other, but to unite them with a consid- 
erable portion of the community, since a numerous body 
of citizens belong to the aristocracy, without being invested 
with official functions. The aristocratic magistrate is there- 
fore constantly supported by a portion of the community, 
as well as by the government of wliich he is a member. 

The common purpose which, in aristocracies, connects 
the interest of the magistrates &gt;vith that of a portion of their 
contemporaries, identifies it also vnih that of friture genera- 
tions ; they labor for the friture as well as for the present. 
The aristocratic mjijnstrate is urcjed at the same time, 
towards the same point, by the passions of the community. 



ADVANTAGES OF DBMOCBACT. 307 

W his own, and, I may almost add, by those of his poster- 
ity. Is it, then, ■wonderfiil that he does not resist such 
repeated impulses? And, indeed, aristocracies are often 
carried away by their class-spirit, without being corrupted 
hj it ; and they unconaciously fashion society to their own 
ends, and prepare it for their own descendants. 

The English aristocracy ia perhaps the most liberal 
which has ever existed, and no body of men has ever, 
uninterruptedly, fiimished bo many honorable and enlight^ 
ened individuals to the government of a country. It can- 
not, however, escape observation, that, in the legislation of 
England, the interests of the poor have been often sacri- 
ficed to the advantage of the rich, and the rights of the 
majority to the pri^-ileges of a few. The consequence ts, 
that England, at the present day, combines the extremes 
ol good and evil fortune in the bosom of her society ; and 
the miseries and privations of her poor almost equal her 
power and renown. 

In the United States, where the pabh'c officers have no 
class-interests to promote, the general and constant influ- 
ence of the government is beneficial, although the individ- 
uals who conduct it are fi-equently unskilfiil, and sometimes 
contemptible. There is, indeed, a. secret tendency in dem- 
ocratic institutions, which makes the exertions of the citi- 
zens subservient to the prosperity of the community, in 
spite of their vices and mistakes ; whilst in aristocratic 
institutions, there is a secret bias, which, notwithstanding 
the talents and virtues of those who conduct the govern- 
ment, leads them to contribute to the evils which oppress 
their fellow-creatures. In aristocratic governments, public 
men may frequently do harm without intending it ; and in 
democratic states, they bring about good results which th^ 
never thought of. 



808 DEMOCBACY IN AMERICA. 

PUBLIC SPIRIT IN TSE UNITED STATES. 

InstinQtiye Patriodsm. — Patriotism of Reflection. — Their dîfièrent Cliaiw 
acteristics. — Nations ought to strive to acquire the second when the fin! 
has disappeared. — Efforts of the Americans to acquire it — Interest of 
the Individual intimately connected with that of the Conntrf. 

There is one sort of patriotic attachment, which princi- 
pally arises £rom that instinctive, disinterested, and undo» 
finable feeling which connects the affections of man w^tb 
his birthplace. This natural fondness is united with a taste 
for ancient customs, and a reverence for traditions of the 
past ; those who cherish it love their country as they love 
the mansion of their fathers. They love the tranquillitj 
which it affords them ; they cling to the peaceful liabits 
which they have contracted within its bosom ; tliey are 
attached to the reminiscences which it awakens ; and they 
are even pleased by living there in a state of obedienc&lt; 
This patriotism is sometimes stimulated by religious enthu- 
siasm, and then it is capable of making prodigious efforts— ^ 
It is in itself a kind of rehgion : it does not reason, but \W^ - 
acts from the impulse of faith and sentiment. In some m 
tiens, the monarch is regarded as a personification of th&lt; 
country ; and, the fervor of patriotism being converted int&lt; 
the fervor of loyalty, they take a sympathetic pride in 
conquests^ and glory in his power. There was a tim e — ^ 
under the ancient monarchy, when the French felt a sorfc^ 
of satisfaction in the sense of their dependence upon the^ 
arbitrary will of their king ; and they were wont to say 
with pride, " We live under the most powerful king in the 
world." 

But, like all instinctive passions, this kind of patriotism 
incites great transient exertions, but no continuity of effort. 
It may save the state in critical circumstances, but often al- 
lows it to decline in times of peace. Whilst the manners 
of a people are simple, and its faith unshaken, — whilst 





ADVANTAGES OP DEMOCEACT. 809 

society is Bteadily based apon traditional institutions, wLose 
legitimacy has never been contested, — this instinctive pa- 
tiiotisni is wont to endure. 

But there is another species of attachment to country, 
which is more rational than the one we havo been describ- 
ing. It is, perhaps, less generous and less ardent, but it is 
more fruitful and more lasting: it springs from knowledge ; 
it is nurtured by the laws ; it grows by the exercise of civil 
rights ; and, in the end, it is confounded with the personal 
interests of tlie citizen. A num comprehen da Jhe influence 
wbjph tbp wyll-t^ipg ofjiis country has upon his own ; he is 
aware that the laws- permit him to contribute to that pros- 
peritj-, and h^Jaben to promote it, at first because it bene- 
fits him, andjgcondly bocauso it-ia.in.part liiicyvn work. 

But epochs sometimes occur in the life of a nation, 
when the old customs of a people are changed, public mo- 
rality is destroyed, religious belief shaken, and the spell of 
tradition broken, whilst the diffusion of knowledge is yot 
imperfect, and the civil rights of the community are ill 
secured, or confined within narrow limits. The country 
then assumes a dim and dubious shape in the eyes of the 
citizens; they no longer behold it in the soil which they 
inhabit, for that soil is to them an inanimate clod ; nor in 
the usages of their forefethers, which they have learned to 
regard as a debasing yoke ; nor in religion, for of that tliey 
doubt; nor in the laws, which do not originate in their 
own authority ; nor in the legislator, whom they fear and 
despise. The country is lost to their senses ; they can 
neither discover it under its own nor under borrowed fea;- 
tures, and they retire into a narrow and unenlightened 
selfishness. They are emancipated from prejudice, with- 
out having acknowledged the empire of reason ; they have 
neither the instinctive patriotism of a monarchy, nor the 
reflecting patriotism of a republic ; but they have stopped 
between the two in the midst of confusiou audL ^\&amp;\x«a&amp;. 



810 DEMOCBAGY IN ÂMEBIGA. . 

In this predicament, to retreat is impossible ; for a people 
cannot recover the sentiments of their youth, any more 
than a man can return to the innocent tastes of childhood : 
such things may be regretted, but tliey cannot be renewed. 
They must go forward, and accelerate the union of private 
with pubUc interests, since the period of disinterested pa;- 
triotism is gone by forever. 

I am certainly far from affirming, that, in order to obtain 
this result, the exercise of poUtical rights should be imme- 
diately granted to all men. But I maintain that the mast 
powerful, and perhaps the only, mesms which we still po^ 
À sess of interesting men in the welfare ot their country, is 
to make them partakers in the government. At the pres- 
ent time, civic zeal seems to me to be inseparable from the 
exercise of political rights ; and I think that the number 
of citizens will be found to augment or decrease in Europe 
in proportion as those rights are extended. 

How happens it that in the United States, where the 
inhabitants arrived but as yesterday upon the soil which 
they now occupy, and brought neither customs nor tradi- 
tions with them there ; where they met each other for the 
first time with no previous acquaintance ; where, in short, 
the instinctive love of country can scarcely exist ; — how 
happens it that every one takes as zealous an interest in 
the affairs of liis township, his county, and the whole State, 
as if they were his own ? It is because every one, in his 
sphere, takes an active part in the government of society. 

The lower orders in the United States understand the 
influence exercised by the general prosperity upon their 
own welfare ; simple as this observation is, it is too rarely 
made by the people. Besides, they are wont to regard tliis 
prosperity as the fruit of their own exertions. The citizen 
looks upon tlie fortune of the public as his own, and he 
labors for the good of the State, not merely from a sense 
of pride or duty, but from what I venture to term cupidity. 



ADTANTAOES OF DEUOCBACY. Sll 

It is unnecessaiy to study the insdtutions and the histoiy 
of the Americans in order to know the truth of this r^ 
mark, for their manners render it sufficiently evident. As 
the American participates in all that is done in his countiy^ 
he thi nks MaBelf obliged' to defend whatever may be cen- 
sored in it ; fer it is not only his country which is then 
attacked, it is himself. The consequence is, that his na- 
tional pi'ido resorts to a thousand artifices, and descends to 
all the petty tricks of personal vanity. 

Nothing is more embarrassing. In the ordinary inter- 
course of life, than this irritable patriotism of the Ameri- 
cans. A stranger may be well inclined to praise many of 
the institutions of their country, but he begs permission to 
blame some things in it, — a permission which is inexorably 
refused, America is therefore a free country, in which, 
lest anybody should be hurt by your remarks, you are not 
allowed to speak freely of private individuals, or of the 
state; of the citizens, or of the authorities; of public or 
of private undertakings ; or, in siiort, of anything at all, 
except, perhaps, the climate and the soil ; and even then, 
Americans will be found ready to defend both, as if they 
had concurred in producing them. 

In our times, we must choose between the patriotism 
of all and the government of a few ; for the social force 
and acti\-ity wliich the first confers are in-econcilable with 
the pledges of tranquillity which are given by the second. 



NOnO!» OF RIGHTS IM THE DNITED STATES. 

Ho ei«iit People wiibnat a Notion of Bight. — How the Notion of Rigbt 
can bo given to a People. — Kcspect for Right in the United St«M«.— 
Wbcnce it uiaea. 

After the general idea of virtue, I know no higher 
principle than that of right ; or rather these two ideas are 
tmited in one. The idea of right ia aimçVy &lt;JaaX (£ nSxIou^ 



812 DEMOCRACY IN AMERICA. 

introduced into the political world. It was the idea of right 
which enabled men to define anarchy and tyranny; and 
which taught them how to be independent without arro- 
gance, and to obey without servility. The man who 5nl&gt;- 
mits to violence is debased by his compliance ; but wh^ 
he submits to that right of authority which he acknowl- 
edges in a fellow-creature, he rises in some measure above 
the person who gives the command. There are no great 
men without virtue ; and there are no great nations, — it 
may almost be added, there would bo no society, — without 
respect for right ; for what is a union of rational and in- 
telligent beings who are held together only by the bond of 
force ? 

I am persuaded that the only means which we possess, 
at the present time, of inculcating the idea of right, and 
of rendering it, as it were, palpable to the senses, is to en- 
dow all with the peaceful exercise of certain rights : this is 
very clearly seen in children, who are men without the 
strength and the experience of manhood. When a child 
begins to move in the midst of the objects which surround 
him, he is instinctively led to appropriate to himself every- 
thing which he can lay his hands upon ; he has no notion 
of the property of others ; but as he gradually learns the 
value of things, and begins to perceive that he may in his 
turn be despoiled, he becomes more circumspect, and he 
ends by respecting those rights in othei's which he wishes 
to have respected in himself. The ])rinciple which the 
child derives from the possession of his toys is taught to 
the man by the objects which he may call his own. In 
America, the most democratic of nations, those complaints 
against property in general, which are so frequent in 
Europe, are never heard, because in America there are no 
paupers. As every one has property of his own to defend, 
every one recognizes the principle upon wliich he holds it. 

The same thing occurs in the political world. In Amer- 



ADVANTAGES OF DEHOOBACT. 818 

ic*. t he low est classes have conceived a verj high noUon 
&lt;rf polit ical l i m its, bftcaiifl^ they txenrHkrlSlosa'TTghts ; and 
they refrain &amp;om attacking the rights of others, in order 
that their own may not be viokted. Wliibt in Europe, the 
same classes sometimes resist even the supreme power, the 
American submits without a murmur to the authority of 
Uie pettiest ma^trate. 

This truth appears even in the trivial details of national 
life. In France, few pleasures are exclusively reserved for 
the higher classes ; the poor are generally admitted wher- 
ever the rich are recdved ; and they consequently behave 
with propriety, and respect whatever promotes the enjoy- 
ments which they themselves share. In England, where 
wealth has a monopoly of amusement as well as of power, 
complaints are made, that, whenever the poor happen to 
enter the places reserved for the pleasures of the rich, they 
do wanton mischief: can this be wondered at, since care 
has been taken that they should have nothing to lose ? 

The government of the democracy brings the notion of 
political rights to the level of the humblest citizens, just as 
the dissemination of wealth brings the notion of property 
within the reach of all men ; to my mind, tills is one of its 
greatest advantages, I do not say it is ea^ to teach men 
how to exercise political rights ; but I maintain that, when 
it is possible, the effects which result from it are highly im- 
portant ; and I add, that, if there ever was a time at which 
such an attempt ought to be made, that time is now. Do 
you not see that reli^ous belief is shaken, and the divine 
notion of right is declining ? — that morality is debased, 
and the notion of moral right is therefore lading away ? 
Argument is substituted for faith, and calculation for the 
impulses of sentiment. If, in the midst of this general 
disruption, you do not succeed in connecting the notion 
of right with that of private interest, which is the only 
tmmntable point in the human heart, what i&amp;.&lt;e«n&amp; "tr^ '^qql 



814 DEHOCBACT IM AMERICA. 

have of goreming the world except by fear ? Wlien I am 
told that tlie laws are weak and the people are turbulent, 
that passions are excited and the aathorit^ of virtue is par- 
alyzed, and therefore no measures must be taken to increase 
the rights of tÉe democracy, I reply, that, for tliose vmj 
reasons, some measures of the kind ought to be taken ; and 
~I believe that governments are still more interested in tak- 
ing them tlian society at lat^, for governments may perUh, 
but society cannot die. 

But I do not wish to exa^erate the example which 
America furnishes. There the people were invested with 
political rights at a time when they could not be abased, 
for the inhabitants were few in number, and simple in their 
manners. As they have increased, the Americans have 
not augmented tlie power of the democracy ; they hâve 
rather extended its domain. 

It cannot be doubted that the moment at wliicli political 
riglits ai-e granted to a people that had before been witliout 
them ia a very critical one, — that tlie measure, though 
often necessary, is always dangerous, A child may kill 
before lie is aware of the value of hfe ; and he may de- 
prive another person of his property, before he is aware 
that his own may be taken from him. The lower orders, 
when first they are invested with political rights, stand, in 
relation to those rights, in the same position as the child 
does to-,the whole of nature ; and the celebrated adage 
may tlicn be applied to tliem. Homo piier robusttig. This 
truth may be perceived even in America. The States in 
which the citizens have enjoyed their rights longest, are 
those in which tliey make the best use of tliem. 

It cannot be repeated too often, that nothing is more fer- 
tile in prodigies than the art of being free ; but there is 
nothing more arduous than the apprenticeship of liberty. 
It is not so with despotism: despotism often prombes to 
make amenda for a thousand previous ills ; it supports the 



ADVANTAGES OF DEHOCSAOT. 815 

right, it protects the oppressed, and it maintains public or- 
der. The nation is lulled by the teoiporaiy prosper!^ 
which it produces, until it b roused to a sense of its lajs- 
eiy. Liberty, on the contrary, is generally established 
with difficulty in the midst of Btonm ; it is perfected by 
civil discord ; and its benefits cannot be appreciated until it 
is already old. 



B£aP£CT FOR THE LA.W IN THE UMTTZD STATES. 

Bespect of the Americaiu for tbs Law. — Fuental Afiêctloa which thej 
entcnaia Ibt it. — Fonooal Inurett of evei^ one to incraoM the Powr 
□f the Law. 

It is not always feasible to consult the whole people, 
either directly or indirectly, in the formation of the law ; 
but it cannot be denied that, when this is possible, the au- 
thority of the law is much augmented. This popular ori- 
^n, which impairs the excellence and the wisdom of legis- 
lation, contributes much to increase its power. There is 
an amazing strength in the expression of the wiD of a 
whole people ; and when it declares itself, even the imagi- 
nation of those who would wish to contest it is overawed. 
The truth of this feet is well known by parties ; and they 
consequently strive to make out a majority whenever they 
can. If they have not the greater number of voters on 
their side, they assert that the true majority abstained from 
voting ; and if they are foiled even there, they have re- 
course to those persons who had no right to vote. 

In the United States, except slaves, servants,* and pau- 
pers supported by the townships, there is no class of pei^ 
Bcms who do not exercise the elective franchise, and who 
do not indirectly contribute to make the laws. Those 

* Thii il a »tniig« mistake ; in the United Stmtea, serrBDta hare u good 
Kij^t to TOle M their GmpIojEiB, and often rote «g^inattlmci. — hit. In. 



DEMOCRACY IN AUERICA. 



«hs wUi to attttck tliB laws must consequently «Uter 
I tbe opinion of tbe nation, or trample upon its 



A second nosnn, whicli is still more direct uid weighty, 
^r be adduced : in the United States, every one is per- 
■MmIIt intt^restcd in enforcing the obedience of the whole 
«otBiunity to tliu law ; for as tlie minnrity may shortly 
tattr tbe miyorily to its principled, it is interested in pro- 
Umi^jT that respect for the décrues of the legislator which 
jl BUT SooU have occasion to claim for its own. However 
mktotoe an enactment may be, the citizen of the United 
Sn Uiu c&lt;Mnplie9 with it, not only because it is the work of 
tke majority, but because it is his own, and he regards it as 
a contract to which he is himself a party, 

In the UnitL'd States, then, that numerous and turbulent 
niultiiude does not exist, who, regiirding the law as their 
natural enemy, look upon it with fear and distrust. It is 
impossible, on the contrary, not to perceive that all classes 
dixplay the utmost reliance upon the legislation of their 
country, and are attached to it by a khid of parental af- 
fection. 

I am wrong, however, in saying all classes ; for as, in 
America, the European scale of authority is inveited, the 
wealthy are there placed in a position analogous to tliat of 
the poor in the Old World, and it is tlie opulent classes 
who frequently look upon tlie law with suspicion. I have 
already obsei-ved that the advantage of democracy is not, 
'»a has been sometimes asserted, that it protects the ïnter- 

s of all,, but simply that it protects those of the majority. 
In the United States, where the poor rule, the rich have 
■Iways somelhing to fear fiv»m the abuse of their power. 
This natund anxie^ of the rich may produce a secret di»- 
ifttisfiiction ; but society is not disturbed by it, for the same 
1 iBBSon which withholds the confidence of the rich from tho 
[atire authority, makes them obey its mandates : thàr 



ADVANTAGES OF DEMOŒACY. SIT 

wealth, which prevents them from making the law, pi«- 
rents them from withstanding it. Amongst civilized na- 
tions, only those who have nothing to lose ever revolt ; 
and. if the laws of a democracy are not always worthy of 
respect, they are always respected ; for those who usually 
infringe the laws cannot fail to obey those which they have 
themselves made, and by which they are benefited ; whilst 
the citizens who might be interested in tha infraction of 
them are induced, by their character and station, to submit 
to the deciaions of the legislature, whatever tliey may be. 
Besides, the people in America obey the law, not only be- ■ 
cause it is their work, but because it may be changed if it ' 
be harmful ; a law is observed because, first, it is a self- 
imposed evil, and, secondly, it is an evil of transient dura- 
tioD. 



Acnvrrr which pervades aix parts of thb bodt pol- 
itic IK THE UNITED STATES ; INFLUENCE WHICH TP EX- 
ERCISES UPON 80CIETT. 

Mon difficult to conceive the Political Activi^ which perradM the XJnitatl 
Suics, thui the Freedom uid Eqcilit; which reign there. — The great 
Activitj which pcrpetuallj' agitatea the LegialotÎTO Bodies it only on £pi- 
«ode, a Prolongation of the Eencral Activitj, — DJfRcult for an Ameri- 
can to confine himself to hi» own BqsineM. — Polidcal Agitation culcnd* 
to all social Inlercoarso. — Commcnial Activilyof the Americana parti; 
Bttribotable to this Caiuo. — Indirect Advantages which Society dcrivei 
from a Democratic Goïenunent. 

On passing from a free country into one which is not 
free, the traveller is struck by the change ; in the former, 
all is bustle and activity ; in the latter, everything seems 
calm and motionless. In the one, amelioration and pro- 
gress are the topics of inquiry ; in the other, it seems as 
if the community wished only to repose in the enjoyment 
&lt;tf advantages already acquired. Nevortbda», ÛA cxran&amp;rj 



818 UEHOCSACT m AUEBtCA. 

which exerts itself so strenuously to become happy, û gen- 
erally more wealthy and prosperous than that which ap- 
pears so contented with its. lot; and when we compare 
them, we can scarcely conceive lioiv so many new wants 
are daily felt in the former, whibt so few seem to exist in 
the latter. 

If tills remark is applicable to those free conntries which 
have presen-cd monarchica] forma and aristocratic institu- 
tions, it is still more bo to democratic republics. In these 
States, it is not a portion only of the people who endeavor 
to improve the state of society, but the whole community 
is engaged in the task ; and it is not the exigencies and 
convenience of a single class for which provision is t« be 
made, but the exigencies and convenience of all classes at 
once. 

It is not impossible to conceive the surprising liberty 
which the Americans enjoy ; some idea may likewise be 
formed of their extreme equality ; but the political activity 
which pervades the United States must be seen in order to 
be understood. | No sooner do you set foot upon American 
ground, than you are stunned by a kind of tumult ; a con- 
fused clamor is heard on every side ; and a thousand simot- 
taneous voices demand the satisfaction of tlieir social wants. 
Everything is in motion around you ; here, the people of 
one quarter of a town are met to decide upon the build- 
ing of a church ; there, the election of a representative is 
going on ; a little further, the delegates of a district are 
posting to the town in order to consult upon some local 
improvements ; in another place, the laborers of a village 
quit their ploughs to deliberate upon the project of a road 
or a public school. Meetings are called for the sole pur- 
pose of declaring their disapprobation of the conduct of 
the government ; whilst in other assemblies, citizens salute 
the authorities of the day as the fathers of their coan- 
try. Societies are formed which re^rd drunkenness as the 



ADTAITTAGES OF DEHOCRACT. 819 

principal causa of the erils of the state, and solemnly bind 
themselves to give an example of temperance." 

The great political agitation of American legislative 
bodies, which is the only one that attracts tlie attention of 
foreigners, is a mere episode, or a sort of continuation, of 
that universal movement which ori^nates in the lowest 
classes of the people, and extends successively to all the 
moks of society. It is impossible to spend more effort in 
the piursuit of happiness. 

The cares of politics engross a prominent place in the 
occupations of a citizen in the United States ; and almost 
the only pleasure which an American knows is to take a 
part in the government, and to discuss its measures. This 
feeling pervades the moat trifling habits of life ; even the 
women frequently attend public meetings, and listen to 
political harangues as a recreation from their household 
labors. Debating clubs are, to a cerbun extent, a substi- 
tute for theatrical entertainments: an American cannot 
converse, but he can discuss ; and his talk falls into a dis- 
sertation. He speaks to you as if he was addressing a 
meeting ; and if he should chance to become warm in the 
discussion, he will say " Gentlemen " to the person with 
whom he is conversing. 

In some countries, the inhabitants seem unwilling to 
avail themselves of the political privileges which tlie law 
^ves them ; it would seem that they set too liigh a value 
upon tlieir time to spend it on the interests of the commu- 
nity ; and they shut themselves up in a narrow selfishness, 
marked out by four sunk fences and a quickset hedge. 
But if an American were condemned to confine his activity 
to his own affairs, he would be robbed of one half of his 

* At the limo of mj Hay in the Unitad States, tho Tcmpcrnnra Socictist 
■beady roaiiistcil of mora tbui 3T0,00D members; and their effect had been 
to diminish (lie coninmption of ilTong liqnon bj SOO.OOO galloiu per annmn 
' fai Peotu/lvania tdoue. 



820 DEMOCaiAOT m amsbeoa. 

existence; he would fed an imraemft Toid m lili9&lt;JHb 
which he is accustomed to lead, and Ua 
would be unbearable.* I am penuaded, that, if ev«v m 
, potism should be established in Ameriem it will be. 
'7 / difficult to overcome the habita which fieedom haa 
I than to conquer the love of fireedom itself. 

This ceaseless agitation which democratio govemnmt 
has introduced into the political world, influences all wodti 
intercourse. I am not sure that, upon the whole, tbia sa 
not the greatest advantage of democracy ; and I am kai 
inclined to applaud it for what it doea, than fiur what k 
causes to be done. 

It is incontestable that the people frequently condnel 
public business very ill ; but it is impossible that the lower 
orders should take a part in public business without ex- 
tending the circle of their ideas, and quitting the ordinary 
routine of their thoughts. The humblest individual who 
co-operates in tlie government of society acquires a certaio 
degree of self-respect ; and as he possesses authority, he 
can command the services of minds more enlightened than 
his own. He is canvassed by a multitude of applicants, 
and, in seeking to deceive him in a thousand ways, they 
really enlighten him. He takes a part in political under- 
takings which he did not originate, but wliich give him a 
taste for undertakings of the kind. New improvements 
are daily pointed out to him in the common property, and 
this gives him the desire of improving that property which 
is his own. He is perhaps neither happier nor better than 
those who came before him, but he is better informed and 
more active. I have no doubt that the democratic institu- 
tions of the United States, joined to the physical constito- 

* The same remark was made at Rome andcr the first Coesan. Mon- 
tesquieu somewhere alludes to the excessive despondency t&gt;f certain Roman 
citizens, who, after the excitement of political life, were all at onoe flung liadt 
into the stagnation of private life. 



ADVANTAGES OP DEHOCEACT. 821 

tion of the coontrj, are the cause (not the direct, as is bo 
ofben asserted, but the indirect cause) of the prodi^ous 
commercial activity of the inhabitants. It is not created 
by the laws, bat the people leam how to promote It by 
the experience derived from legislation. 

When the opponents of democracy assert tliat a single 
man performs wliat he undertakes better than the goven&gt;- 
ment of all, it appears to me that they are right. The 
government of an individual, supposing an equality of 
knowledge on either side, is more consistent, more perse- 
vering, more uniform, and more accurate in details, than 
that of a multitude, and It selects with more discrimination 
the men wliom it employs. If any deny this, they have 
never seen a democratic government, or have judged upon 
partial evidence. It is true that, even when local circum- 
stances and tlie dispositions of the people allow democratic 
institutions to exist, they do not display a regular and me- 
thodical system of government. Democratic liberty is far 
from accomplisliing all Its projects with the skill o£ an 
adroit despotism. It &amp;equently abandons them before they 
have borne their fruits, or risks them when the conse- 
quences may be dangerous ; but in the end, it produces 
more than any absolute government ; if it does fewer 
things well, it does a greater number of things. Under 
its sway, the grandeur is not in what the public adminis- 
tration does, but in what is done without It or outside of it. 
Democracy does not give the people the most skilfiil gov- 
ernment, but it produces what the ablest governments are 
frequently unable to create ; namely, an all-pervading and 
restless activity, a superabundant force, and an energy 
which is inseparable from it, and which may, however un- 
fiivorable circumstances may be, produce wonders. These 
are the true advantages of democracy. 

In the present age, when the destinies of Christendom 
seem to be in suspense, some bastea to aa&amp;ùV &amp;,«iiy»3roK;3 «&amp; 



SSI DSMOCBACr IN AUERICA. 

a hostile power, whilst it b yet growing ; and others al- 
ready adore this new deity which b springing forth iVom 
chaos. But both parties arc imperfectly acquMotcd with 
the ohject of their hatred or their worship ; tliey strike in 
the dark, and distribute their blows at random. 

We must first understand what is wanted of society and 
its government. Do you wish to ^ve a certain elevation 
to t!ie human mind, and teach it to regard the things of 
this world with generous feelings, to inspire men with a 
scorn of mere temporal ad^-antage9, to form and nourish 
strong convictions, and keep alive the spirit of lionorable 
devotedneas ? Is it your object to refine the habits, embel- 
lish the manners, and cultivate tlie arts, to promote the 
love of poetry, beauty, and glory ? Would you constitute 
a people fitted to act powcrfiilly upon all other nations, and 
prepared for those high enterprises which, whatever be 
their results, will leave a name forever famous in history ? 
If you believe such to be the principal object of society, 
avoid the government of the democracy, for it would not 
lead you with certainty to the goal. 

But if you hold it expedient to divert the moral and in- 
tellectual activity of man to the production of comfort, and 
the promotion of general well-being ; if a clear understand- 
mg be more profitable to man than genius ; if your object 
be not to stimulate the virtues of heroism, hut the habita 
of peace ; if you had rather witness vices than crimes, and 
are content to meet with fewer noble deeds, provided of- 
fences be diminished in the same proportion ; if, instead of 
Jiving in the midst of a brilliant society, you are contented 
to have prosperity around you ; if, in short, you are of 
opinion that the principal object of a government is not 
to confer the greatest possible power and glory upon the 
Iwdy of the nation, hut to insure the greatest enjoyment, 
and to avoid the most misery, to each of tlie individuals 
who compose it, — if such be your desire, then equal- 



ADVANTAGES OF DEUOGBAOT. 828 

ize the conditions of men, and eatablish democradc ia- 
sUtutions. 

Bnt if the time be past at which such a choice was po»- 
sihle, and if some power superior to that of man idreadj 
hurries us, without consulting oar wishes, towards one or 
the other of these two governments, let us endeavor to 
make the best of that which is allotted to us, and, bj' find- 
ing oat both its good and its evil tendencies, be able to fos- 
ter the former and repress the latter to the utmost. 



824 DEMOGRACT IN HOOtlOA. 



CHAPTBE XV. 

UNLIMITED POWER OF THE KAJOBITT IN THE UNIIXD BTATB^ 

AND ITS CONSEQUENCES. 



Natural Stiength of the "Mtjatity in DemocracieB. — Moat of tlie 

Constitatioiia have increaaed this Strength hj artificial Meaaa. —Hoir 
this has been done. — Pledged Pekgatea. — Moral "Pawet of tlie lift* 
jority. — Opinion aa to ita IniUlibi%. — Beqiect for ita Bfg^ hom 

aogmented in the United Statea. 

THE very essence of democratic government consists in 
the absolute sovereignty of the majority ; for there in 
nothing in democratic states which is capable of resisting 
it. Most of the American constitutions have sought to 
increase this natural strengdi of the majority by artificial 
means.* 

The legislature is, of all pohtical institutions, the one 
which is most easily swayed by the will of the majority. 
The Americans determined that the members of the legis- 
lature should be elected by the people directly^ and for a 
very brief term^ in order to subject them, not only to the 
general con-vHictions, but even to the daily passions, of their 
constituents. The members of both houses are taken 
&amp;om the same classes in society, and nominated in the 
same manner ; so that the movements of the legislative 

* We hare seen, in examining the Federal Constitntion, that the efibrta 
of the legislators of the Union were directed against this ahsolute power. 
The consequence has been, that the Federal government is more independ- 
ent in its sphere than that of the States. Bat the Federal goTemment 
tcarcely ever interferes in any bat foreign afïairs ; and the govemmenta of 
the States in reality direct society in America. • 



THE UNLIMITED POWES OF THE UAJOBTTY. 82i 

bcxiies are almost as rapid, and quits as irresistible, as those 
of a single assembly. It is to a legislatm^ thus constituted, 
that almost all the autliority of the government has been 
intrusted. 

At the same time that the law increased the strength of 
those authorities which of themselves were strong, it enfee- 
bled more and more those which were naturally weak. It 
deprived the representatives of the executive power of all 
stability and independence ; and, by subjecting them com- 
pletely to the caprices of the le^lature, it robbed them 
of the slender influence which the nature of a democratic 
government might have allowed them to exercise. In 
several States, the judicial power was also submitted to the 
election of the majority ; and in all of them, its existence 
was made to depend on tlie pleasure of the legislative au- 
thority, since the representatives were empowered annually 
to regulate the stipend of the judges. 

Custom has done even more than law. A proceeding is 
becoming more and more general in the United States, 
which will, in the end, do away with the guaranties of 
representative government : it frequently happens that the 
voters, in electing a delegate, point out a certain line of 
conduct to him, and impose upon him certain positive obli- 
gations which be is pledged to fulfil. With the exception 
of the tumult, tliis comes to the same thing as if tlie major- 
ity itself held its deliberations in the market-place. 

Several other circumstances concur to render tlie power 
of the majority in America not only preponderant, but ir- 
resistible. The moral authority of the majority is partly . 
based upon the notion, that there is more intelligence and 
wisdom in a number of men united than in a single indi- 
vidual, and that the number of the legislators is more im- 
portant than their quality. The theory of equality is thus 
applied to the intellects of men ; and human pride is thus 
assailed in its last retreat by a doctrine which tki^ iiùiurô!:^ 



&lt;SS6 MWMBAor n imncuL 

rbesitate to ftdmit, and to wliich the^ vin bat dcnrlj himC. 
like all other powen, snd perhapa mora tlian anj oAv, 
the authori^ of the manj reqniraB the sancdim of tmia in 
order to appear le^titiute. At fint, it enlorcea obedieon 
hj constraint ; and its laws are not resetted until they ham 
been long maintained. 

The right of governing society, which tbe majoritj' n^ . 
poses itself to derire &amp;om its saperior intelligence, ma m* 
troduced into the United States by the first settlen; and 
this idea, which of itself would be sufficient to create a fine 
nation, has now been amalgamated with the mannen of Aa 
people and the minor incidents of social life. 

The French, under the old monarchj, held it Sm a 
maxim that the king could do no wrong ; and if he did 
do wrong, the blame was imputed to his advisers. This 
notion made obedience very easy ; it enabled tlie subject 
to complain of the law, without ceasing to love and honor 
the lawgiver. The Americana entertain tlie same opinion 
with respect to the majority. 

The moral power of the majority is founded upon yet 
another principle, which is, that the interests of the many 
are to be preferred to tliose of the few. It will readily 
be perceived that tlie respect here professed for tlie rights 
of the greater number must naturally increase or diminish 
according to the state of parties. When a nation is divided 
into seA'cral great irreconcilable interests, the priWlege of 
the majority is often overlooked, because it is intolerable to 
comply with its demands. 

If there existed in America a class of citizens whom the 
legislating majority sought to deprive of exclusive pri\-i- 
leges wliich they had possessed for ages, and to bring down 
firom an elevated station to the level of the multitude, it is 
probable that the minority would be less ready to submit to 
its laws. But as the United States were colonined by men 
Jiolding equal rank, there is as yet no natural or perm» 



THE UNLIMITED POWER OF THE UAJOBITT. 8ST 

nent disagreement between the interests of its different in- 
habitants. 

There are communities in which the members of the 
minoritj can never hope to draw over the majority to their 
side, because they must tiien give up the very point which 
is at issue between them. Thus, an aristocracy can never 
become a majority whilst it retains its exclusive privileges, 
and it cannot cede its privileges withoat ceasing to be an 
aristocracy. 

In the United States, political questions cannot be taken j 
up in so general and absolute a manner ; and all parties are | 
willing to recognize the rights of the majority, becaosa 
they all hope at some time to be able to exercise them to I 
their own advantage. The majority, therefore, in that 1 
country, exercise a prodigious actual auUiority, and a 
power of opinion which is nearly as great; no obstacles 
exist which can impede or even retard its progress, so as 
to make it heed the complaints of those whom it crushes 
upon its path. Thia state of things is hanufii] in itself, 
and dungcrous for the fiiture. 



HOW THE OMNIPOTENCE OF THE MAJOBITT INCREASES, IN 
AMERICA, THE INSTABIUTT OF tEGISLATIOS AND ADMIN- 
ISTRATION INHERENT IN DEMOCRACY. 

The Amcrimns iocrcaH the Matability of L&amp;w which is ialierenl in s Demoe- 
Tacj by clianging the L^UlBtnre «Ter? Year, and iHTCtling tl nilh almoM» 
imbouiKlcU Anlhorilj. — The ume E9bct ii prodnrcd upon the Admia- 
tatraiion. — In Amcrii;^, the Pi«««iiie Tor social Improvements is vmUj 
greater, but Icsa continnoos, than in Europe. 

I HAVE already spoken of the natural defects of dem- | 
ocratic institutions ; each one of them increases in tlie same ) 
ratio as the power of the majori^.y To begin with the 
most evidcht of them all, the mutability of tk« Wn^ S&amp; wl 



828 DSHocKAOT H AmniL 

evil iaberent in a democntie government, b e wm i» h itiHfc» 
oral to democracies to raise new meo to power. Bat lUk 
evil is more or lea* sennble in proportion to the aollMÎt^ 
and the meana of action wUoh &amp;e legÎBlntare pOEBemev- v.. 

In America, the aathority exerciaed 1^ the k^jsktmni b 
supreme ; nothing prevents them firom accompliihing ftirir 
wishes with céleri^, and widi irrésistible power, and dwgr 
are supplied with new représentatives every year. That m 
to Hay, the circumstances which contribute most powev 
fully to democratic instalulity, and which admit of the &amp;«b 
apphcation of caprice to the most imp&lt;H&gt;tant objeetSr ■» 
here in full operation. Henoe America is, at the p reM o t 
day, the countiy of all others where laws hut the ^ortarit 
time. Almost all the American constitutions have been 
amended within thirty years: there is therefore not one 
American State which has not modified the principles of 
its legislation in that time. As for the laws themselves 
a single glance at the archives of the different States of 
the Union suffices to convince one, that in America the 
activity of the legislator never slackens. Not that the 
American democracy is naturally less stable than any 
other, but it is allowed to follow, in the formation of the 
laws, the natural instability of its desires.* 

The omnipotence of the majority, and the rapid as well 
as absolute manner in which its decisions are executed in 
the United States, not only render the law unstable, but 
exercise the same influence upon the execution of tlic law 
and the conduct of the administration. As the majority is 

• The Icgislalirc b&lt;:1i promalgated bf the State of Haasuchusctts alone, 
from the jcta 1780 to (ha present time, alicadj fill three stout volumes ; and 
it must not bo rorgotlen that the collection to which I allucto n-ua revised in 
)SS3, when manj old laws which bad fallen into disuse «ere omitted. The 
State of Muwchusetta, whieh ii nbt more populous than a dopartnicut of 
Cranee, maj be considered as the most liable, iho iDOst consistent, and tha 
moK lagacioat in ila nndertnkin^ of the whole Union. 



THE UNLDniED POWEB OP THE HAJOBTTT. 329 

the onlj power which it is important to court, all ita pn&gt; 
jecta are taken up with the greatest ardor ; but no sooner 
is its attention distracted, tlian all this ardor ceases ; whilst 
in the free states of Europe, where the administration is at 
once independent and secure, the projects of the legislature 
continue to be executed, even when its attention is directed 
to other objects. 

In America, certain improvements are prosecuted with 
much more zeal and activity than elsewhere ; in Europe, 
the same ends are promoted hy much less social effort 
more continuously applied. 

Some years ago, several pious individuals undertook to 
ameliorate the condition of the prisons. The public were 
moved by their statements, and the reform of criminals be- 
came a popular undertaking. New prisons were built; and» 
for the first time, the idea of reforming as well as punishing 
the delinquent formed a part of prison discipline. 

But this happy change, in which the public had taken so 
hearty an interest, and which the simultaneous exertions of 
the citizens rendered irresistible, could not be completed in 
a moment. Whilst the new penitentiaries were being 
erected, and the will of the majority was hastening the 
work, the old prisons still existed, and contained a great 
number of offenders. These jails became more unwhole- 
some and corrupt in proportion as the new establishments 
were reformed and improved, forming a contrast which 
may readily bo understood. The majority was so eagerly 
employed in founding the new prisons, that those which 
already existed were forgotten ; and, as the general atten- 
tion was diverted to a novel object, the care which had 
hitherto been bestowed upon the others ceased. The sal- 
utary regulations of discipline were first relaxed, and after- 
wards broken ; so that, in the immediate neighborhood of 
a prison which bore witness to the mild and enlightened 
spirit of our times, dungeons existed which temîtideÀ ows 
of the barbansm of the Middle Âges. 



DiHocucr m j 



TTSLAVRT OF THE KAJOSIIT. 



How the Principle of the Bow wl g n ty tt dw Ai^li to b« md e i H uu di ^ 
Impouibilitjr of eonoririi^ « lDz«d OvnaimBttt. — The SonnlgB 
Power most euM eomeiriien. — PncandoM to be taken to ooaBt^ IM 
Action. — Theie Precantioae ban not been tiken In the United ridlw 

I HOLD it to be in m^iona uid deteatable maxim, that, 
politically speaking, the people hare a right to do any- 
thing ; and yet I hare asBerted that all aathori^ originatea 
in the wiU of the majority. Am I, then, in cfrntiadictiai 
with myself? 

A general law, irhich bean lit» name of jnstice, to» 
been made and sanc^oned, not only by a majority of this 
or that people, but by a majority of mankind. The rights 
of every people are therefore confined witliin tlic limits of 
what 13 just. A nation may be considered as a jury which 
is empowered to represent society at large, and to apply 
justice, wliich is its law. Ought such a jury, which rep- 
resents society, to have more power than the society itself^ 
whose laws it executes? 

When I refuse to obey an unjust law, I do not contest 
the right of the majority to command, but I simply appeal 
from the sovereignty of the people to the sovereignty of 
mankind. Some have not feared to assert tbat a people 
can never outstep the boundaries of justice and reason in 
those affairs which are peculiarly its own ; and that conse- 
quently full power may be given to the majority by wliich 
they are represented. But this is tlie language of a slave. 
' A majority taken collectively is only an individual, 
whose opinions, and frequently whose interests, are op- 
posed to those of another individual, who is styled a 
minority. If it be admitted that a man possessing abso- 
lute power may misuse that power by wronging his adver- 
saries, why should not a majority be hahlc to the sama 



THE UMUUITED POWÏB OF THE MAJOBITT. 831 

reproach ? Men do not change their characters hj uniting 
with each other ; nor does their patience in the presence 
of obstacles increase with their strength.* For my own 
part, I cannot believe it; the power to do everything, 
which I should refiiae to one of my equals, I will never ^ 
grant to any number of them. 

I do not think tliat, for the sake of preserving liberty, it 
is possible to combine several principles in the same gov^ 
emment so as really to oppose them to one another. The 
form of government which is osnally termed mixed has al- 
ways appeared to me a mere chimera. Accurately speak- 
ing, tliere is no such thing as a mixed ffovemment, in the 
sense usually given to that word, because, in all commoni- 
ties, some one principle of action may be discovered which 
preponderates over the others. England, in the last cen- 
tury, — which has been especially cited as an example of 
this sort of government, — was essentially an aristocratic 
state, although it comprised some great elements of democ- 
racy ; for the laws and customB of the country were such 
that the aristocracy could not but preponderate in the long 
run, and direct public afi&amp;irs according to its own will. 
The error arose from seeing the interests of the nobles 
perpetually contending with those of the people, without 
considering tlie issue of the contest, which was really 
the important point. When a community actually baa 
a mixed government, — that is to say, when it is equally 
divided between adverse principles, — it muSt either expe- 
rience a revolution, or &amp;I1 into anarchy. 

I am therefore of opinion, that social power superior to 
all others must always be placed somewhere ; hut I think 

* No one wilt assert that a people cannot forcibly vrong another people ; 
bnt piTtica may ho looked apon aa Isner nations within a grvM one, aod 
tbey BIO aliens to each other : if, tltercfore, it bo admitted that a nation can 
•et tpnnnicall}' towards another nation, it cauool be denied tbat a fntf 
maj do the lame towards another party. 



882 SEHOOBAor at AUBIGUk. 

that liber^ is endongared -wiaa Hob pawn finds na iAfto- 
cle which can retard its coone, and pve it time to modei^ 
ftte ita own v^emence. 

Unlimited power is in itaelf a bad and dangenn» tUs^ 
Human beings are not competent to exennse it with dis- 
cretion. God alone can be omnipotent, becanse hia wiadom 
and his justice ara always equal to bis power. There is no ' 
power on earth so worthj of honor in itself, or clothed 
with rights so sacred, tbat I woold admit its nnco&amp;troUed 
and all-predominant aathority. When I see that the ligbt 
and the means &lt;£ abaolate command are conferred on maj 
power whatever, be it called a people or a king, an aristiM^ 
racy or a democracy, a monarchy or a republic, I say theve 
is the germ of granny, and I seek to live elsewhere, under 
other laws, 

In my opinion, the main evil of the present democratic 
institutions of the United States does not arise, as is often 
asserted in Europe, from their weakness, but from their 
irresiatible strength. I am not so much alarmed at the 
excessive liberty which reigns in tliat country, as at the in- 
adequate securities which one finds there against tyranny. 
'' When an individual or a party is wronged in the United 
States, to whom can he apply for redress ? If to public 
opinion, public opinion constitutes tlie majority ; if to the 
legislature, it represents the majority, and implicitly obeys 
it ; if to the executive power, it is appointed by the major- 
ity, and serves as a passive tool in its hands. The public 
force consists of the majority under arms ; the jury is the 
majority invested witli the right of hearing judicial cases ; 
and in certain States, even the judges are elected by tlie 
majority. However iniquitous or absurd tlie measure of 
which you complain, you must submit to it as well as you 



• A itriking inaUnn) of (he excaaei vhich may be occtuiomd b; 6» 
deipoùua of the nu^oiit; occnmd U B&amp;ltJmora during the wu of li\X 



THE UNLOinZD POWER OF THE UAJOBTTT. 888 

If, on tlie other hand, a le^ktive power coold te m 
constituted as to represent the majority without necessarily 
being the slave of its passions, an executive so as to retain 
a proper share of anthority, and a judiciary so as to re- 
main independent of the other two powers, a government 

At that time, the mur wu tct; popalar in BaltimoTe. A jonnial whick 
had taken the other tide excited bj it* oppoûlion the indignation of the 
loliabitanti. The mob asaembled, broke the printiag-preucs, and attacked 
(be boose of tbe editors. The militiK «as called ont, but did not oba7 
tbe call ; and tbe onl}' means of saving tbe tnetcbes who were threatened 
b; tbe fienij of tlie mob, was to throw them into prison aa common male- 
lectors. But even this precaution was inefiëetoal ; the mob collected again 
doling the night j the magistrates again made a vain attempt to call ont the 
militia; the prison wu fonxd, one of the newspaper editora was killed 
opon the spot, and the others were left for dead. The goili; parties, when 
the; weni broogbt to trial, were acquitted b/ tbe jniy. 

I said one day lo an inhabitant of Pennsjlvania, " Be so good as to ex- 
le how it happens, that in a State foanded b; Quakers, aod cele- 



brated for iU tolcrali 

They pay taxes ; is 

" Ton insnlt as, 



, free Blacks are not allowed to ezerdie civil right*. 

1 fair that they should vi 
^plied my informant, "if yon imagine that o 



islators coold have committed so gross an act of injostic» and inloler- 

" Then the Blacks possess the ri^t of voting in this coimlt7'f " 

"Withont doubt." 

■' How comes it, then, that at tbe polling-booth, tbii monung, I did not 
perceive a single Negro in the meeting 1 " 

" This is not the fault of tbe law : the Negroee have on nndigpnted right 
of Totingi bat they volantarily abstain from making their appearance." 

"A very pretty piece of modesty on their parti" rejoined I. 

" Why, the tmih is, that they are not diùnclincd to vote, bat they am 
afraid of bdng maltreated ; in this conntry, tbe law is sometimes unable to 
maintain its authority, without the support of the majority. But in this 
case, the m^rity cntertoini very strong prejadiccs against the Blacks, and 
tbe magistrates ore nnable to protect them in the exercise of their 1eg«l 

" Then the majority claims the right not only of m «king the laws, but 
of breaking the laws it has madeî" 

[In HasSBchnieits, and some other States, liee Blacks vote as regulariy 



834 OEUOCRAOT a AIOBIOl. 

would be formed whicli would still be iaaocniSc, withaot 
incurring hardly any risk of ^nnny. 
^ I do not say Ûat there ii a frequent n» of tynnity in 
America at the present day ; bat I maintain lliat tluie û 
no sure barrier against it, and that the causes which nut»* 
gate the government there are to be fonnd in the circanfc- 
stances and the manners of the country, more than in iti 
laws.* 

* Thii vhole chapter li • growing dMcriptfon of Aa btU* whidi an M 
'be fcaxcd in the TJnited Statei from an abiua of tha !—■"»«» power at Ûm 
nuyority. In the miin, it Ii a tnfiiflil ptctore; and jet tba anthor allovi 
hiiiuelf to be 10 tu heated bj loi own thetoiic m to finget the dwcka and 
licnitecionB of thia dominant power irtifch ha hai himnlf eliewben nodeef. 
The very complexitf of oar Grame of goTemiacnl onablea ni to eot off end 
balance the strength of ooa mqority againat anot)icr. Tbna the ftedenl 
luld the State governments matuall; leetrain and llmil each other, vhile each 
ii reetrii'lcd by many proTiaion» in its own wrillca CooBlitutioo, which are 
of the nalore of a Bill of Bighti. No law can be passed by the Federal 
Legislature wiihont iho coocurreDce of a majority of the State» represenud 
in the Stuialo, wherein lictle Delaware, with only one hundred thoosand 
inhabitant, has as potent a roice as the Empira Slate of New York, witb 
its lliree and a half milliooa. Even the sturdy little New England tuwn- 
abip, so admimblj dcscrilicd elsewhere by M. do TocqneviUe, succeeds in 
causing its rights to bo icspoctcd in the State L&lt;^slataro, where it ii im- 
mensely oatnumbcrcd, because the other townships would make common 
catiso with it against any ciying iiyiistice, fearing that its case may become 
their own at sonie future day. Moreover, the mnjority in a State, or even 
Id the United Slates, though a raighly, ia ako an unwieldy power, acting 
only at long iDlcrvals, once a year, or once in four ycais, and then throng 
•0 many agents, and so mnch machinery, that tlic foreo of its hlotrs Ij 
greatly impaired before they reach their object. It is only a figure of 
■jwcch to say that the majority of the people make the Uws, becaoso they 
choose the members of the Legislature. The delegates thus chosen respect 
their coostitucats, it is true, and strive in the main to confonn to their 
wishes J and yet they act very differently from what those constituent! 
would do, if allowed to come together whenever Ihcy pleased, and directly 
enact any law that pleased them, upon any «abject. Tlio necessary delaji 
in law-making, the compliance with established forms, tbo suspensive veto 
of a Governor or a President, the fbar whiiJi each individual Icgitlaloc 
S&amp;Mrtiiiu leal the ptopoMd enwOnftOi, tkta^tt U ma; gratify his praoot 



THE DMUinTED POWER OF THE ÏIAJOBITT. 



EFFECTS OF THE OUNIPOTKNCB OF THE HAJORITT UPON 
THE ARBITB&amp;aT ADTHOHITT OP AHEKICAN PUBLIC OP^ 
FICEBS. 

Ubert; left b; the Aroeriom L«wi to FnbUo Oflken witUn a uitalii 
Sphere. — Their Power. 

A DiSTiMcnoK most be drawn between tyranny and 
arbitrary power. Tyranny may be exercised by means of 
the law itself, and in that case it is not arbitrary ; arbitrary 
power may be exercised for the public good, in wliich case 
it is not tyrannical. Tyranny usually employs arbitrary 
means, but, if necessary, it can do without them. 

In the United States, the omnipotence of the majority, 
which is favorable to the legal despotism of the legislature, 
likewise fevors the arbitrary authority of the magistrate. 



pusion or tho present passioiiB of hia coostitiieDta, maj work hann ta him 
or them in the long ma, — all these ore aalutai; ultguBidi agoinst tiia 
■bme of a mighty power. 

Agsin, it IB ODtf B Bgnra of speech to i«prMeiit the majorit; and the 
niinarity as two individoali contending with each other, ihongh veij un- 
eqnalljr matched. A m^oritj is not one man, bat a mnltitnde of men, and 
a multitude which cannot, by any degree of pohtical skill and discipline, 
be made (o think or act as one man. The indlTidnals who compose it are 
the majority only on this or that subject; on half s dozen otlier sal^iecti, 
eroy one of them may be a member of a minority ; on some points — 
his own prirata intere«l«, for example — he may stand alone. Thus ûtn- 
Med, be ia not at oil likely to make an unscmpnlons use of the itec strength 
of the greater namber, bat will generally &amp;ror moderate and condliatory 
cotiDsels. He will also reflect, that the change of a very few votes may 
placfl the majority oa tho other side in respect to tho very sabjects on which 
it ia no«r with him ; and any violent expedient which he may now adopt 
will then be a formidable precedent to be used against him. 

As to the riots in Baltimore and elsewheie, or the prejudice which so 
generally operates in America to the disadvantage of the Negroes, M. de 
Tocqnevilla forgets that snch things are not penihar to democracies. Wit- 
ness the Ko-Popcry riot» of 1780, tiie Biistol riots on occasion of the 
B«fbrm Bill, the frequent emeutei at Paris, and a thOBSand othm hisbnlieBl 
«■MB.— Am. Ed. 



S36 



DEMOCBACT IS AMEBIOA. 



The majority has absolute power botli to make the law and 
to watch over its execution ; and as it has equal authority 
over those who are in power, and the community at lai^, 
it considers public officers as its passive agents, and readily 
confides to them the task of carrying oat its designs. Tlifl 
details of their office, and the privileges which tlioy are to 
enjoy, are rarely defined beforehand. It trijuls them as a. 
master does his servants, since they are always at woA in 
his sij^ht, and he can direct or reprimand them ftt any 
instant. 

In general, the American functionaiiea ai-e far more in- 
dependent witliin the sphere which is prescribed to them 
than the French civil officers. Sometimes, even, Ihey are 
allovvad by the popular authority to exceed those bounds ; 
and /s ilii-y are protected by the opinion, and backed by 
thaf power, of the majority, they dare do things which 
emn a European, accustomed as he is to arbitrary power, 
1 astonished at. By this means, habits are formed in the 
neart of a free country which may some day prove fatal to 
its liberties. 



H/ 



la AmericA, when llie Miyontf bu once iireTocabl}' decided &gt; Question, iS 
Ditcns^on ceues. — Bcuod of thii. — Moral Power exercised by th» 
Majority npon Opinioa. — Democnlic Bepnblki hare applied Demo»- 
iim to the Minds of Men. 

It is in the examination of the exercise of thought in 
the United States, that we clearly perceive how (àr the 
power of the majority surpasses all the powers with which 
we are acquainted in Europe. Thought is an invisible and 
Bnbtile power, that mocks all the efforts of tyranny. At 
the present time, the most ateolute monarchs in Europe 
aaahot prevent certûn opinions hostile to thdr authority 



THE infUHITED POWEU OF THE UAJORITT. 837 

from circulating in secret through their dominions, and 
even in their courts. It is not so in America ; as long as 
&amp;e majority is sdll undecided, discussion is carried on ; but 
as soon as its decision is irrevocably pronounced, every one 
is silent, and the â-iends as well as the opponents of the 
measure unite in assenting to its propnety. The reason 
of this is perfectly clear: no monarch is so absolute as to 
combine all the powers of society in his own hands, and 
to conquer all opposition, as a majority is able to do, which 
has the right both of making and of executing the laws. 

The authority of a king is physical, and controls the 
actions of men without subduing their will. But the ma- 
jority possesses a power which is physical and moral at the 
same time, which acts upon the will as much as upon the 
actions, and represses not only all contest, but all con- 
troversy. 

I know of no country in which there is so little inde- 
pendence of mind and real freedom of discussion as in 
America. In any constitutional state in Europe, every sort 
ttf religious and political theory may be freely preached 
and disseminated ; for there is no country in Europe so 
subdued by any single authority, as not to protect the man 
who raises hi.s voice in the cause of truth from the conse- 
quences of his hardihood. If he is unfortunate enough to 
live under an absolute government, the people are often 
upon his side ; if he inhabits a free country, he can, if 
necessary, find a shelter behind the throne. Tlie aristo- 
cratic part of society supports him in some countries, and 
the democracy in others. But in a nation where demo- 
cratic institutions exist, organized like those of the United 
States, there is but one authority, one element of strength 
and success, with nothing beyond it. 

In America, the majority nuses formidable barriers 
around the liberty of opinion : within these barriers, an 
author may write what he pleases ; but woe to luxiv ^ ^ 



888 iiEuocsAcr im America. 

goes beyond thom. Not tluit he à in danger of an auio- 
da-/é, Lut lie ia esposod to contlnuetl oUoqiiy and po&gt; 
secution. His political career is closeil fi^rt'vpr, since he 
has oSbndcd the only authority which is ahle to open 
it. Every sort of compensation, even that of celebrity, is 
refiised to him, Befoi-o publishing his opinions, ho im- 
agined that he held them in common witli others; but no 
sooner has he declared them, than he is loudly censured hy 
his opponents, whilst those who think like him, without 
having the courage to speak out, abandon Iiim in silence. 
He yields at length, overcome by the daily effort which he 
has to make, and subsides into silence, as if he frit remorse 
for havint; spoken the truth. 

Ffltrrs and licitdsmi-n wtTC the coarse instromcnls which 
tyranny formerly employed ; but the civilization of our age 
has perfected despotism itself, though it seemed to have 
nothing to learn. Monarchs had, so to speak, materialized 
oppression : the democratic republics of the present day 
have rendered it as entirely an affair of the mind, as the 
will which it is intended to coerce. Under the absolute 
sway of one man, the body was attached in order to sub- 
due the sold ; but the soul escaped the blows which were 
dkected against it, and rose proudly superior. Such is not 
the course adopted by tyranny in democratic republics ; 
there tlio body is left free, and the soul is enslaved. The 
master no longer says, " You shall think ns I do, or you 
sliall die " ; but he says, " You are free to think differently 
from me, and to retain your life, your property, and all 
that you possess ; but you are henceforth a stranger among 
your people. You may retain your civil rights, but they 
will be useless to you, for you will never be chosen by 
your fellow-citizens, if you solicit their votes ; and they will 
affeet to scorn you, if you ask for their esteem. You will 
remain among men, but you will be deprived of the rights 
t^ Biankind. Your f-'llow-creatures will shun you like aa 



THE tlNLIMITED POWER OF THE MAJORITY. 889 

tmptire being ; and even those who believe in yonr inno- 
cence will abandon you, lest tbey should be shunned in . 
their turn. Go in peace I I have given you your life, 
but it is an existence worse than death." 

Absolute monarchies had dishonored despotism ; let us 
beware lest democratic republics should reinstate it, and 
render it less odious and degrading in the eyes of the many, 
by malting it still more onerous to the few. 

Works have been published in the proudest nations of 
the Old World, expressly intended to censure the vices 
and the follies of the times : Labruyère inhabited the pal- 
ace of Louis XIV,, when he composed his chapter upon 
the Great, and Moliùre criticised the courtiers in the pieces 
which were acted before the court. But the ruling power 
in the United States is not to be made game of. The 
smallest reproach irritates its sensibility, and the slightest 
joke which has any foundation in trutli renders it indig- 
nant ; from the forms of its language up to the solid vir- 
tues of its character, everything must be made the subject 
of encomium. No writer, whatever be his eminence, can 
escape paying this tribute of adulation to his fellow-citizens. 
The majority lives in the perpetual utterance of seltap- 
plause ; and there are certain truths which the Americans 
can only learn from strangers or irom experience. 

If America has not as yet had any great writers, the 
reason is given in these fiicts ; there can be no literary 
genius without freedom of opinion, and freedom of opinion 
does not exist in America. The Inquisition has never 
been able to prevent a vast number of anti-religious books 
from circulating in Spain. The empire of the majority' 
succeeds much better in the United States, since it actually 
removes any wish to publish them. Unbelievers are to be 
met with in America, but there is no public organ of 
infidelity. Attempts have been made by some govern- 
ments to protect morality by proliibiting \\cetv^\o\ja \«n^. 



340 DEUOCBACT DT AHCIIGUL 

In the United States, no one is jhmished ftff ûSà wart of 
books, but no one is induced to write them ; not becanM 
all tlio citizens are inunacolate ïn conduct, bat becnue Ae 
mnjority of the community is decent and ordeiljr- 

Tn this case the use of the power is nnqnestionablj good ; 
III L«un discussing the nature of the power itself. Tfak 
e authority is a constant fitct, and its j 
h only an acddent.* 




OF THE TTBAHHT OF THE MAJOBITT XTPOti IHB 

TIOXi^L CHAKACTBR OT THE AHBtUOAHa. THE OOVB- 

TTER-SPIBIT IN THE imiTED STATES. 

Enrtlf of thi Tjnainj of the Majority more «eaùbly felt hitherto on tb« 
Mhiuicis than on the ConJan of Sodcty. — Tlicy check the Develop- 
ment of grvat CharnrCcn. — Dcmoonrii; Rcpnlilira, oi^nizcil like the 
UniiMl Stales, infuse the Courtier-spirit into Iho Mass of the People. — 
Proofs of thii Spirit in the United State*, — Why thcni is morn Fatriot- 
itm in tlie People tlian in thoM who govern in their Kamo. 

The ttnidencies which I have just mentioned are as 
yet but slightly perceptible in political society ; but they 
already exercise an unfavorable influence upon tlie national 
character of the Americans. I attribute the small number 
of distinguished men in political life to the ever-increasing 
despotism of the majority in the United States. 

When the American Revolution broke out, they arose 
in great numbers ; for public opinion then served, not to 
tyrannize over, but to direct the exertions of individuals. 
Tliose celebrated men, sharing die a^tation of mind com* 

■ De Tocqueville's remarks on this «abject aie rhctorirai, and altOKCther 
too highly colored. It is notorious, that, in politics, morality, and religion, 
the mogt oRengive opinions are preached and printed every week here in 
America, apparently for no other purpose than that of shocking the senti- 
nunU of the great hulk of the community. Instcail of complaining of tin 
fconda^ of thought, the jniliciona observer will ntlher giievo at tha eztcmaa 
ifoBDtioiLjnesa of the rostrum «nl l^ie ft«N. — tks.lfA. 



THE UNLIUITED POWEB OF TBE HAJOBITY. 341 

mon at that period, had a grandeur peculiar to themselves, 
which was reflected back upon the nation, but was by no 
means borrowed from it. 

In absolute govermnents, the great nobles who are near- 
est to the Uirone flatter the passions of the sovereign, and 
volnntarilj truckle to his caprices. But the mass of the 
nation does not degrade itself by servitude ; it often sub- 
mits from weakness, from habit, or from ignorance, and 
sometimes from loyalty. Some nations have been known 
to sacrifice their own desires to tliose of the sovereign with 
pleasure and pride, thus exhibiting a sort of independence 
of mind in the very act of submission. These nations are 
miserable, but they are not degraded. There is a great 
difference between doing what one does not approve, and 
feigning to approve what one does ; the one is the weakness 
of a feeble peraon, the other befits the temper of a lackey. 

In free countries, where every one is more or less called 
upon to give his opinion on affaira of state, — in democratic 
republics, where public life is inceSsantly mingled with do- 
mestic aflairs, where the sovereign authority is accessible 
on every side, and where its attention can always be at- 
tracted by vociferation, — more persons are to be met with 
who speculate upon its weaknesses, and live upon minis- 
tering to its passions, than in absolute monarchies. Not 
because men are naturally worse in these states than else- 
where, but the temptation is stronger and of easier access 
at the same time. The result is a more extensive debase- 
ment of character. 

Democratic republics extend the practice of currying 
&amp;vor with the many, and introduce it into all classes 
at once : this is the most serious reproach that can be 
addressed to them. This is especially true in democratic 
states organized like the American republics, where the 
power of the majority is so absolute and irresistible that 
(me must give up his rights as a citizen, and almost ah^nx» 



S42 DEHOCBACT IN AMEBIOA. 

his qualities as a man, if he intends to straj from the track 
which it prescribes. 

In that immense crowd which throngs the avenues to 
power in the United States, I found very few men who 
displayed that manly candor and masculine independence 
of opinion which frequently distinguished the Americans 
in former times, and which constitutes the leading feature 
in distinguished characters wheresoever tliey may be found. 
It seems, at first sight, as if all the minds of the Ameri- 
cans were formed upon one model, so accurately do thej 
follow the same route. A stranger does, indeed, sometimes 
meet with Americans who dissent from the rigor of these 
formularies, — with men who deplore the defects of the 
laws, tlie mutability and the ignorance of democracy, — 
wlio even go so fur as to observe tlie evil tendencies wliich 
impair the national character, and to point out such reme- 
dies as it might be possible to apply ; but no one is there to 
hear them except yourself, and you, to whom these secret 
reflections are confided, are a stranger and a bird of pas- 
sage. They are vcr^" ready to communicate truths which 
are useless to you, but they hold a different language in 
public. 

If ever these lines are read in America, I am well as- 
sured of two tliin&lt;Ts ; — in the first place, that all who 
l)eruse tlicm will raise their voices to condemn me ; and, 
in the second place, that many of them will acquit me at 
tfie bottom of their conscience. 

I have heard of j)atriotism in the United States, and I 
have found true patriotism among the people, but never 
among tlio leaders of the people. This may be explained 
by analog}^ : despotism debases the oppi'essed much more 
than the oi)pressor : in absolute monarchies, the king often 
has great virtues, but the courtiers are invariably servile. 
It is true that American courtiers do not say *^ Sire,*' or 
*' Your Majesty," — a distinction witliout a différence 



THE TJKLIMITED POWEB OF THE HAJOMTr. 348 

They are forever talking of the natural intelligence of the 
people whom they serve : they do not debate the question 
which of the virtues of their master is pre-eminently wor- 
thy of admiration, for they assure him that he possesses all 
the virtues without having acquired them, or without caring 
to acquire them ; tliey do not give him their daughters and 
their wives to he raised at his pleasure to the rank of his 
concubines ; but, by sacrificing their opinions, they prosti- 
tute themselves. Moralists and philosophers in America 
are not obliged to conceal their opinions under the veil of 
allegory ; but before they venture upon a harsh truth, they 
say, " We are aware that the people whom we are address- 
ing are too superior to the weaknesses of human nature to 
lose the command of their temper for an instant. We 
should not hold this language if we were not speaking to 
men whom their rirtues and their intelligence render more 
worthy of freedom than all the rest of the world." The syc- 
ophants of Louis XIV, could not flatter more dexterously. 
For my part, I am persuaded that, in all governments, 
whatever their nature may be, serviUty will cower to force, 
and adulation will follow power. The only means of pre- 
venting men from degrading themselves b to invest no one 
with that unlimited authori^ which ia the sure method of 
debasing them. 



Democratic licpublica liable lo perish from &amp; Misnse of their Power, and 
not Ironi Impotence. — The GaTcmmeDti of the American Itepablics 
are more Cenlralized and moce Energetic tlian tiuue of the Monarchies 
of Europe. — Dangers resalttng from thii. — Opiniooa of Madison and 
JeBèrsoQ npon this Point. 

GoYEBKMENTS Usually perish from impotence or from I 
tyranny. In the former case, their power e&amp;c»\^ *bc^»fi. '' 



844 DEMOCRACY IS AHEEIOA. 

them ; it Is wrested from th^ gnisp in Uie l&amp;tter. Many 
observers who liave witDessed the anarchy of democratic 
states, have imagined that the government of tliose states 
was naturally weak and Impotent. -The truth is, that, 
wlien war is once begun between parties, the government 
loses its control over society. But I do not tliink that a 
democratic power is naturally mthout force or resources ; 
say, rather, that it is almost always by the abuse of ita 
force, and the mi3emplo3-ment of its resources, tliat it be- 
comes a fjulure, Anarcliy is almost alwaj-s produced by 
ita tyranny or its mistakes, but not Vy its want of strength. 
It is important not to confound stability with force, or 
the greatness of a thing with its duration. In democratic 
republics, the power which directs" society is not stable; 
for it often changes bands, and assumes a new direction. 
But, whichever way it turns, its force is almost irresistible. 
The governments of the American republics appear to me 
I to be as much centralized as those of the absolute monarch- 
\ ies of Europe, and more energetic than they are. I do not, 
I therefore, imagine that they will perish from weakuess-f 
/ If ever the free institutions of America are destroyed, 
that event may be attributed to the omnipotence of the 
majority, which may at some future time urge the n 
ities to desjieration, and oblige them to have i 
physical force. Anarchy will then be the result, but it 
\ will have been brought about by despotism. 

Mr. Madison expresses the same opinion in the Federal- 
ist, No. 51. *' It is of great importance in a republic, not 

■ Thia power ma; be ceotralized Id mi assembly, m wbich ose It «ill b« 
strong without being itable ; or it diaj be centralized in an indiridaaJ, in 
which cue it will be leu itrong, bat more stable. 

t I presume that it is scanxlf aeixaaij to ttmintl the ttader here, m well 
■s throughout this chapter, thst I am ipeoking, cot of the Fdlcral govran. 
■nents, but of the sevenU gorenunetua of each Btate, which the mqjoiit; 
«obols at ita pleanire. 



THE UNLIMITED POWEE OP THE MAJORITT. ^6 

only to gusrd the society against the impression of ita rul- 
ers, but to guard one part of the society against the injus- 
tice of the other part. Justice is the end of government. 
It is the end of civil aoâety. It ever has been, and ever 
will be, pursued until it be obtained, or until liberty be 
lost in the pursuit. In a society, under the forms of which 
the stronger faction can readily unite and oppress the 
weaker, anarchy may as truly be said to reign as in a 
slate of nature, where the weaker individual is not secured 
against the violence of the stronger : and as, in the latter 
state, even the stronger individuals are prompted by the 
uncertainty of their condition to submit to a government 
which may protect the weak as well as tliemselves, so, in 
the former state, will the more powerftil actions be grad- 
ually induced by a like motive to wish for a government 
which will protect all parties, the weaker as well as the 
more powerful. It can be little doubted, that, if the State 
of Rliode Island was separated from the Confederacy and 
left to itself, the insecurity of right under the popular form 
of government within such narrow limits would be dis- 
played by such reiterated oppressons of the factious major&gt; 
ities, that some power altogether independent of the people 
would soon be called for by the voice of the very factions 
whose misrule had proved the necessity of it." 

Jefferson also said ; " The executive power in our gov- 
ernment is not the only, perhaps not even the principal, 
object of my solicitude. The tyranny of the le^slature is 
really the danger most to be feared, and will continue to be 
so for many years to come. The tyranny of the executive 
power will come in its torn, but at a more distant period," 

I am glad to cite the opinion of Jefferson upon this sub- 
ject rather than that of any other, because I consider him 
thu most powerftU advocate democracy has ever had. 



DKUÛCBÂCY IK AMEBICA. 



CHAPTER XVI. 



AB3EMCS OF CEin'RALtZED ADMINIfflHATIOlf. 

The Naiional Miyority do« not pretend to do eTeryihing. — Is obliged to 
emploj the Tovm and Couatj Magistrales to extxale its sovercij^ Will. 

I HAVE already pointed out the distinction between 
a centralized government and a centralized adminis- 
tration. The former exists in America, hut the latter is 
nearly imkuowii tlierc. If tlie directing power of the 
American communities had both these instruments of gov- 
ernment at its disposal, and united the habit of executing 
its commands to the right of commanding ; if, after having 
established the general princijiles of government, it de- 
scended to the details of their application ; and if, having 
reguUtted the great interests of the country, it could dp- 
sceiid to the circle of individual interests, freedom wotdd 
soon he banished fi-ora the New World. 

But in the United States, the majority, which so fre- 
quently displays the tastes and the propensities of a despot, 
is still destitute of the most perfect instruments of tyranny. 

In the American i-epuhlics, the central government has 
nevtT as yet busied itself but with a small number of 
objects, sufficiently prominent to attract its attention. The 
secondary afl'airs of society have never been regnlatcd by 
its iiiitboriiy ; and nothing has hitherto betrayed its desire 
of even interfering in them. The majority is become 



MITIGATIONS OF THE TYRANNY OF THE MAJOKITY. 847 

more and more absolute, but has not increased the prerog- 
atives of the central government ; those great prerogatives 
have been confined to a certain sphere ; and, although the 
despotism of the majority may be galling upon one point, 
it cannot be said to extend to all. However the predomi- 
nant party in the nation may be carried away by its pas- 
sions, however ardent it may be in the pursuit of its 
projects, it cannot oblige all the citizens to comply with its- 
desires in the same manner, and at the same time, through- 
out the country. When die central government which 
represents that majority has issued a decree, it must in- 
trust the execution of its will to agents, over whom it fre- 
quently has no control, and whom it cannot ^perpetually 
direct. The townships, municipal bodies, and counties 
form so many concealed breakwaters, which check or part 
the tide of popular, determination. If an oppressive law 
were passed, liberty would still be protected by the mode 
of executing that law ; the majority cannot descend to the 
details and what may be called tlie puerilities of adminis- 
trative tyranny. It does not even imagine that it can do 
80, for it has not a full consciousness of its authority. It 
knows only the extent of its natural powers, but is unac- 
quainted with the art of increasing them. 

This point deserves attention; for if a democratic re- 
public, similar to that of the United States, were ever 
founded in a country where the power of one man had 
pre\îously established a centralized administration, and had 
sunk it deep into the liabits and the laws of the people, I 
do not hesitate to assert, that, in such a republic, a more 
insufferable despotism would prevail than in any of the 
absolute monarchies of Europe ; or, indeed, than any 
which could be found on this side of Asia. 



DEaOCRACÏ IS AMEEICA- 



UlitiC; of asocrtainiug what aiK Ihe a&amp;lurftl liiEttnut» oC tbe L(!^ Fm- 
fosiuQ. — Tliixo Men ore to act a iiroinïiiiMit Port in tiitun SocieQ'. — 
How the pocQliar Pomin of I«wjen giro an aristoinitic Turo to 
llioir Iiltu. — Aividenta] CaoH» whirh miij rheik iKis Tcniicnct. — 
Ease mlh which the Ariaocnuy catleMaa with Ifg&amp;l Mcd. — Uae of 
LawyEn to a Dcapot. — Tho Prolcuioa of the Law constiiutcs the aalj 
uùiocruic Elcmsnt with wliich the iuiutilI ElDinoutt of DemocTscf 
will comiiino. — Peculiar Caiuca which tend lo give an arialocrBtii- Tutu 
of Mind to Engli^ and American Lawyers. — The Aiiitoviaoy of 
America is on the Bench and at tlie Bar. '- InBocnce of L«wTcra apon 
American Society. — Their pccoliur Magislenul Spirit aflucts tlic Legû- 
Utoro, tho Âdmiiiistnilion, and er«xi the People. 



In visiting tlie Americans and smdying their laws, we 
perceivo that the atithority they have intrusted to members 
of the legal profession, and the înâuence which these indi- 
viduals exercise in the government, is the moat powerful 
existing security against the excesses of democracy. This 
effect seems to me to result &amp;om a general cause, which it 
is useful to investigate, as it may be reproduced elsewhere. 

The members of the legal profession have taken a part 
in all the movements of political society in Europe for the 
last five hundred years. At one time, they have been the 
instruments of the pohtical authorities, and at another, 
they have succeeded in converting the political authorities 
into their instruments. In the Middle Ages, they afforded 
a powerful support to the Crown ; and since that period, 
they have exerted themselves efiectively to limit the royal 
prerogative. In England, they have contracted a close 
alliance with the aristocracy: in France, they have shown 
themselves its most dangerotis enemies. Under alt these 
circumstances, have the members of the legal profession 
been swayed by sudden and fieeting impulses, or have they 
been more or less impelled by instincts which are natazal 



UrriGATIONS OF THE TYBANNT OF THE MAJORITT. 349 

to them, and which will always recur in history ? I am 
incited to this investigation, for perhaps this particular class 
of men will play a prominent part in the political socie^ 
which is soon to be created. "" 

Men who have made a special study of the laws derive 
&amp;om this occupation certain habits of order, a taste for for- 
malities, and a kind of instinctive regard for the regular 
connection of ideas, which naturally render them very hos- 
tile to the revolutionary spirit and the unreflecting passions 
of tlie multitude. 

The special information which lawyers derive from their 
studies insures them a. separate rank in society, and th^ 
constitute a sort of privileged body in the scale of intellect. 
This notion of their superiority perpetually recurs to them 
in the practice of their profession : they are the masters of 
a science which is necessary, but which is not very gen- 
erally known ; tliey serve as arbiters between the citizens ; 
and the habit of directing to their purpose the blind pas- 
sions of parties in litigation, inspires them with a certain 
contempt for the judgment of the multitude. Add to tliis, 
that they naturally constitute a body ; not by any previous 
understanding, or by an agreement which directs them to a 
common end ; but the analog of their studies and the uni- 
formity of their methods connect their minds together, as 
a common interest might unite their endeavors. 

Some of the tastes and the habits of the aristocracy may 
consequently be discovered in the characters of lawyers. 
They participate in the same instinctive love of order and 
formalities ; and tiicy entertdn the same repugnance to the 
actions of the multitude, and the same secret contempt of 
the government of the people. I do not mean to say that 
the natural propensities of lavryers are sufficiently strong 
to sway them irresistibly ; for they, like most otlier men, 
are governed by their private interests, and especially hy 
the interests of the moment. 



850 DEMOCBACT TS AMEBIOA. 

In 8 state of society in which the members of the legal 
profession cannot hold that rank in the political world 
which they enjoy in priTUte life, we may rest assured that 
th^ will he the foremost agents of revoInUon. But it 
must then be inquired, whether the cause which then 
induces them to innomte and destroy results from a per- 
manent disposition or from en accident. It is true that 
lawyer? mainly contributed to the overthrow of tlie Frendi 
monarchy in 1789 ; but it remains to be seen whetlier they 
acted tlius because they bad studied the laws, or because 
they were prohibited from making them. 

Five hundred years ago, the English noUes headed the 
people, and spoke in their name ; at the present time, the 
aristocracy support the throne, and defend tlie royal pre- 
rogative. But aristocracy has, notwithstanding tliis, its 
peculiar instincts and propensities. We must be carefiil 
not to confound isolated members of a body with the body 
itself. In 111! free governments, of whatsoever form they 
may bo, members of the legnl profession will be found in 
the front ranks of all parties. The same remark is also 
applicable to the aristocracy ; almost all the democratic 
movements which have agitated the world have been di- 
rected by nobles. A privileged body can never satisfy 
the ambition of all its members : it lias always more tal- 
ents and more passions than it can find places to content 
and ciii])loy ; so tliat a considerable number of i)Kli\'idual3 
are usually to be met with, who are inclined to attack 
those vvvy privileges which they cannot soon enough turn 
to their own aceoimt. 

I do not, then, assert that all the members of the legal 
profession are, at all times, the friends of order and the 
opponents of innovation, but merely that most of them are 
usnuHv so. In a community in which lawyers are allowed 
to oceiipy without opposition that high station which nati*. 
rally belongs to them, their general spirit will be emineatly 



MITIGATIONS OF THE TYKANNY OF THE MAJORITY. 351 

conservative and anti-democratic. When an aristocracy 
excludes the leaders of tiiat profession from its ranks, it 
excites enemies who are the more formidable as they are 
independent of the nobiUty by their labors, and feel them- 
selves to be their equals in intelligence, though inferior in 
opulence and power. But whenever an aristocracy con- 
sents to impart some of its pri\'ileges to these same individ- 
uals, the two classes coalesce very readily, and assume, as 
it were, family interests. 

I am, in like manner, inclined to believe that a monarclï 
will always be able to convert legal practitioners into the 
most ser^'iceable instruments of his authority. There is a 
fiir greater affinity between this class of persons and the 
executive power, than there is between them and the peo- 
ple, though they have often aided to overturn the former ; 
just as there is a greater natural affinity between the nobles 
and the monarch, than between the nobles and the people, 
although the higher orders of society have often, in con- 
cert with the lower classes, resisted the prerogative of the 
crown. 

Lawyers are attached to public order beyond every other 
consideration, and the best security of public order is au- 
thority. It must not be forgotten, also, that, if they prize 
freedom much, they generally value legality still more: 
they are less afraid of tyranny than of arbitrary power ; 
and, provided the legislature undertakes of itself to deprive 
men of their independence, they are not dissatisfied. 

I am therefore convinced that the prince who, in pres- 
ence of an encroaching democracy, shoidd endeavor to 
impair the judicial authority in his dominions, and to 
diminish the political influence of lawyers, would commit 
a great mistake : he would let slip the substance of au- 
thority to grasp the shadow. He would act more wisely 
in introducing lawyers into the government ; and if he 
intrusted despotism to them under the form of vvol&lt;£ûRa^ 



852 DEMOCRACT IN AHEBICA. 

perhaps he would find it again in their hands under Ae 
external featores of justice and law. 

The government of democracy is fitvorable to the polit- 
ical power of lawyers ; for when the wealthy, the noble, 
and the prince are excluded from the government, the law- 
yers take possession of it, in their own right, as it were, 
since they are the only men of information and sagaci^, 
beyond the sphere of the people, who can be the object of 
the popular choice. If, then, they are led by their tastes 
towards the aristocracy and the prince, they are brought 
in contact with the people by their interests. They Uke 
the government of democracy, without participating in its 
propensities and without imitating its weaknesses ; whence 
they derive a twofold authority from it and over it. The 
people in democratic states do not mistrust tlie members of 
the legal profession, because it is known that they are in- 
terested to serve the popular cause ; and the people listen 
to them without irritation, because they do not attribute 
to them any sinister designs. The lawyers do not, in- 
deed, wish to overthrow the institutions of democracy, 
but they constantly endeavor to turn it away from its 
real direction by means which are foreign to its nature. 
Lawyers belong to the people by birth and interest, and 
to the aristocracy by habit and taste ; they may be looked 
upon as the connecting link of the two great classes of 
society. 

The profession of the law is the only aristocratic element 
which can be amalgamated without violence with the nat- 
ural elements of democracy, and be advantageously and 
permanently combined with them. I am not ignorant of 
the defects inherent in the character of this body of men ; 
but without this admixture of lawyer-Kke sobriety with 
the democratic principle, I question whether democratic 
institutions could long be maintained ; and I cannot be- 
lieve that a republic could hope to exist at tlie present 






MITIGATIONS OF THE TYBANNT OF THE MAJOBITT. 358 

time, if the influence of lawyers in public business did not 
increase in proportion to the power of the people. 

This aristocratic character, which I hold to be common 
to the legal profession, is much more distinctly marked in 
the United States and in England than in any other coun- 
try. This proceeds not only from the legal studies of the 
English and American lawyers, but from the nature of the 
law, and the position which these interpreters of it occupy, 
in the two countries. The English and the Americans 
have retained the law of precedents ; that is to say, they 
continue to found tlieir legal opinions and the decisions of 
their courts upon the opinions and decisions of their prede- 
cessors. In the mind of an English or American lawyer, 
a taste and a reverence for what is old is almost always 
united with a love of regular and lawful proceedings. 

This predisposition has another eflect upon the character 
of the legal profession and upon the general course of soci- 
ety. The English and American lawyers investigate what 
has been done ; the French advocate inquires what should 
have been done : the former produce precedents ; the lat- 
ter, reasons. A French observer is surprised to hear how 
often an English or an American lawyer quotes the opin- 
ions of others, and how little he alludes to his own ; Whilst 
the reverse occurs in France. There the most trifling liti- 
gation is never conducted without the introduction of an 
entire system of ideas peculiar to the counsel employed ; 
and the fundamental principles of law are discussed in 
order to obtain a perch of land by the decision of the 
court. This abnegation of his own opinion, and this im- 
plicit deference to the opinion of his forefethers, which are 
common to the English and American lawyer, this servi- 
tude of thought which he is obliged to profess, necessarily 
give him more timid habits and more conservative inclina- 
tions in England and America than in France. 

The French codes are often difiScult of comprehension. 



854 

bat they csn be read by every one ; nolhmg, on ihe otber 
band, can be more obscurt and strange to tlic uniniUatedt 
than a legislation Foonded upon precedents. The absolute 
need of legal aid which is felt in England and tlie United 
States, and the -higb (pinion ivhicli is entertained of tha 
ability of the legal pio&amp;saion, tend to separate it more 
and more &amp;om the people, and to erect it into a (Ustinct 
class. The French lavyer is simply a man extensivelr 
acquainted with the statutes of bis country ; but the Eng- 
lish or American lairyet resembles the lûerophants of 
Eig^t, for, like them, be is the sole interpreter of an 
occult science. . ^ 

The position which lawyers occni^ in Wh^twI ui^ 
America exercises no less infltience upon Ûiài hahita «ad 
opinions. The English aristocracy, which has taken care 
to attract to its sphere whatever is at all analogous to itself 
has conferred a high degree of importance and authority 
upon the members of the legal profession. In English 
society, lawyers do not occupy the first rank, but they are 
contented with the station assigned to them : they consti- 
tute, as it were, the younger branch of the English aris- 
tocracy ; and they are attached to their elder brothers, 
although they do not enjoy all their privileges. The Eng- 
lish lawyers consequently mingle the aristocratic tastes and 
ideas of the circles in which they move, with the aristo- 
cratic interests of their profession. 

And, indeed, the lawyer-like character which I am en- 
deavoring to depict is most distinctly to be met with m 
■ England : there, laws are esteemed not so much because 
, they are good as because they are old ; and if it be neces- 
sary to modily them in any respect, to adapt them to the 
changes which time operates in society, recourse is bad to 
the most inconceivable subtildea in order to uphold the 
traditionary fabric, and to maintain that nothing has been 
done which does not square with the intentions, and c&lt;nn- 



MITIGATIONS OF THE TYRANNY OF THE MAJORITY. 355 

ft 

plete the labors, of former generations. The very îndi- 
viduals who conduct these changes disclaim any desire of 
innovation, and had rather resort to absurd expedients than 
plead guilty to so great a crime. This spirit appertains 
more especially to the English lawyers ; they appear indif- 
ferent to the real meaning of what they treat, and they 
direct all their attention to the letter, — seeming inclined 
to abandon reason and humanity, rather than to swerve 
one tittle from the law. English legislation may be com- 
pared to the stock of an old tree, upon which lawyers have 
ingrafted the most dissimilar shoots, in the hope that, 
although their fruits may diflfer, their foliage at least will 
be confounded with the venerable trunk which supports 
them all.* 

In America, there jg:e no nobles or hterary men, and the 
people are apt to mistrust the wealthy; lawyers conse- 
quently form the highest political class, and the most cul- 
tivated portion of society. They have therefore nothing 
to gain by innovation, which adds a conservative interest 
to their natural taste for public order. K I were asked 
where I place the American aristocracy, I should reply, 
without hesitation, that it is not among the rich, who are 
united by no common tie, but that it occupies the judicial 
bench and the bar. 

The more we reflect upon all that occurs in the United 
States, the more shall we be persuaded that the lawyers, as 
a body, form the most powerful, if not the only, counter- 
poise to the democratic element. In that country, we 
easily perceive how the legal profession is quahfied by its 
attributes, and even by its fiiults, to neutralize the vices 

* All this is the criticism of a livolj and intelligent Frenchman, vmhr 
miliar with the principles and modes of procedure peculiar to the English 
Common Law, and exaggerating these verj peculiarities of it, because thej* 
are so unlike the legal maxims and methods in which he has himself been 
nurtured firom childhood. — Am. Ed. 



S56 DEMOGRACT 01 AMBOOX 

inherent in popular goYenumenL When the Am c ti c i 
people are intoxicated by peasioii, or carried away bj dn 
impetuosity of their ideas, they are checked and at oiip e d 
by the abnost invisible influence of their legal coanseDon. 
These secretly oppose thdr aristocratic piropensitics.tp the 
nation's democratic instincts, their superstitions attachment 
to what is old to its loye of novelty, thdr narrow views to 
its immense designs, and their habitual procrastination to 
its ardent impatience. 

The courts of justice ara tiie visible organs by which the 
legal profession is enabled to control tiie democracy. The 
judge is a lawyer, who, independentiy of the taste for reg- 
ularity and order which he has contracted in the study of 
law, derives an additional love of stability from the inalien- 
ability of his own fimctions. His legal attainments have 
already raised him to a distinguished rank amongst his fel- 
lows ; his political power completes the distinction of his 
station, and ^ves him the instincts of the privileged classes. 

Armed with the power of declaring the laws to be un- 
constitutional,* the American magistrate perpetually inter- 
feres in political affairs. He cannot force the people to 
make laws, but at least he can oblige them not to disobey 
their own enactments, and not to be inconsistent with 
themselves. I am aware that a secret tendency to dimin- 
ish the judicial power exists in the United States ; and by 
most of the Constitutions of the several States, the gov- 
ernment can, upon the demand of the two houses of the 
legislature, remove the judges from their station. Some 
other State Constitutions make the members of the judi- 
ciary elective, and they are even subjected to frequent 
re-elections. I venture to predict that these innovations 
will sooner or later be attended with fatal consequences ; 
and that it will be found out at some friture period, that, by 
thus lessening the independence of the judiciary, they have 

* See Chapter VL p. 125, on the Judicial Power in the United States. 



UITIGATIONS OP THE TTBAKNT Or THE UAJOBITT. 857 

attacked not only the judicial power, bat the democratic 
republic itself. 

It must not, moreover, be supposed that the legal spirit 
is conSned, in the United States, to the courts of justice ; 
it extends far beyond them. As the kwyera form the only 
enlightened class whom the people do not mistrust, they 
are naturally called upon to occupy most of the public 
stations. They all the legislative assemblies, and are at 
the head of the administration ; they conseijuently exercise 
a powerful influence upon the formation of the law, and 
upon its execution. The lawyers are, however, obb'ged to 
yield to the current of public opinion, which is too strong 
for them to resist ; but it is easy to fiad indications of what 
they would do, if they were free to act The Americans, 
who have made so many innovations in their political laws, 
have introduced very sparing alterations in their civil laws, 
and that with great difficulty, although many of these laws 
are repugnant to their social condition. The reason of this 
is, that, in matters of civil law, the majority are obliged to 
defer to the authority of the legal profession, and the 
American lawyers are disinclined to innovate when they 
are left to their own choice. 

It is curious for a Frenchman to hear the complfùnts 
which are made in the United States, against the stationary 
spirit of legal men, and their prejudices in &amp;vor of existing 
institutions. 

The influence of legal habits extends beyond the precise 
limits I have pointed out. Scarcely any political question 
arises in the United States which is not resolved, sooner 
or later, into a judicial quesUon. Hence all parties are 
obliged to borrow, in their daily controversies, the ideas, 
and even the language, pecuhar to judicial proceedings. As 
most public men are, or have been, legal practitioners, th^ 
introduce the customs and technicahties of their profession 
into tlic management of public affairs. The jury extends 



868 DEMOGRACT 01 JOIIBIOA. 

this habitade to all daases. Hie langiuige of die kw dne 
becomes, in some measure, a Tolgar toogae ; the spirit of 
the law, which is produced in the schools and courts of 
justice, gradually penetrates beyond llifijr walls into the 
bosom of society, where it descends to the lowest rlsnifiB, 
so that at last the whole people contract the habits and 
the tastes of the judicial magistrate. The lawyers of tbe 
United States form a party which is but litde feared and 
scarcely perceived, which has no badge peculiar to itseU^ 
which adapts itself with great flexibility to the ezigencieB 
of the time, and accommodates itself without resistance to 
all the movements of the social body. But diis parlj 
extends over the whole community, and penetrates into 
all the classes which compose it; it acts upon the coun- 
try imperceptibly, but finally fitshions it to suit its own 
purposes. 



TRIAL BY JUKY IN THE UNITED STATES CONSIDERED AS A 

POLITICAL INSTITUTION. 

Trial by Jury, which is one of the Forms of the Sovereignty of the People, 
ought to be compared with the other Laws whicli establish that Soy- 
croignty. — Composition of the Jury in tlie United States. — Effect of 
Trial by Jury upon the National Character. — It educates the People. 
— How it tends to establish the Influence of the Magistrates, and to 
extend the Legal Spirit among the People. 

Since njy subject has led me to speak of the administra- 
tion of justice in the United States, I will not pass over it 
without adverting to the institution of the jury. Trial by 
jmy may be considered in two separate points of view ; as 
^ judicial, and as a political institution. If it was my pur- 
pose to inquire how far trial by jury, especially in civil 
(Qises, insures a good administration of justice, I admit that 
Jll utility might be contested. As the jury was first estab- 
^ Hiked when society was in its infency, and when courts of 



MITIGATIONS OF THE TYRANNY OF THE MAJORITY. 359 

jnstlce merely decided simple questions of fact, it is not an 
easy task to adapt it to the wants of a highly civilized com- 
munity, when the mutual relations of men are multiplied 
to a surprising extent, and have assumed an enlightened 
and mtellectual character.* 

My present purpose is to consider the jury as a political 
institution; any other course would divert me from my 
subject, Of trial by jury, considered as a judicial insti- 
tution, I shall here say but little. When the English 
adopted trial by jury, they were a semi-barbarous people ; 
they have since become one of the most enlightened na- 
tions of tlie earth ; and their attachment to this institution 
seems to have increased with their increasing cultivation. 
They have emigrated and colonized every part of the 
habitable globe; some have formed colonies, others inde- 
pendent states; the mother country has maintained its 
monarchical constitution ; many of its offspring have 
founded powerful republics ; but everywhere they have 
boasted of the privilege of trial by jury.f They have 
established it, or hastened to re-establish it, in all their 
settlements. A judicial institution which thus obtains the 

* TIic consideration of trial bj jury as a judicial institation, and the 
appreciation of its effects in the United States, together with an inquiry 
into tlic manner in wliich the Americans have used it, would suffice to form 
a book, and a book upon a very useful and curious subject. The State of 
Louisiana would throw the most light upon the subject, as it has a mingled 
population of French and English. The two systems of law, as well as 
the tvvo nations, are there found side by side, and are gradually combining 
with each other. The most useful books to consult would be the DigesU 
des Lois de la Louisiane ; and the Traité sur les Règles des Actions civUes, 
printed in French and English at New Orleans, in 1830. 

t All tlie English and American jurists axe unanimous upon this head. 
Mr. Story, Judge of the Supreme Court of the United States, speaks, in 
his Commentaries on the Constitution, of the advantages of trial by jury- 
in civil cases : " The inestimable privilege of a trial by jury in civil cases/' 
says he, " a privilege scarcely inferior to that in criminal cases, which ii 
counted by all persons to be essential to political and civil liberty." 



860 DEHOCBACT IK AUEBICA. 

mSrages of a great people for so long a series of ages, wUdi 
is zealously reproduced at every stage of civilization, in all 
the climates of the earth, and under every form of human 
government, cannot be contrary to the spirit of justice.* 

But to leave this part of the subject. It would be • 
very narrow view to look upon the jury aa a mere judidal 
institution ; for, however great its influence may be upon 
the decisions of the courts, it is still greater on the dest^ 

* If it ynm ota province to point out tbe ntilltr of the Jnrj u a jndiiid 
hutitiition, many argoinenta might be brought fonrard, and amongtt olbMI 
tho following : — 

In proportion as yon intnidaoe the jiuy into the bnsinoi of the MUfl, 

jon arc enabled to diminish iho number of jndgGa ; irhich ia a great adran- 
tagc. When judges arc Tcry namerous, dcnth is pcrpctnally thinning th&gt; 
ranlcs of the judicial functionarii?», nnd leaving plarcs Tocsnt for new-eomen. 
The amhiiion of (he mapstrates is therefore continually excited, and tbcj 
are nnturally mado dependent npon the majority, or tlie pcreon who filll up 
the vacant appointments : the officen of the courts (hen rise like (he officeit 
of an iLrmy. This state of things is entirely contrary to the sonnd admiit- 
istratioo of justice, and to the intentions of the legislator. Tlie office d 
a judge is mode inalienable in onlcr that he may remain independent ; bil 
of wlmt advantage is it that his independence should be protected, if he bt 
tempted 10 sacrifice it of liia own accord ! When juilpcs arc very numer 
OU9, many of tlicm must ncecssarily be incapable ; for a fircat mngistrall 
is a man of no common powers : I know not if a half-cnlighleoed tribuiul 
is not the worst of aQ combinations fur allaining tliose objects which ii &gt;■ 
the purpose of court» of justice fo accomplish. For mj own part, I htJ 
rather Eubmit tbe decision of a case (o ignorant jurora directeil by a ikilfil 
JDiIge, ihnn to judges a majority of whom are imperfectly acquainted iriii&gt; 
jurisprudence and with the la^vs. 

[I venture to temiad Iho reader, lest this noto should appear somewhit 
redundant to an English eye, that the jury is an institution which has only 
been naturaliicd in France within the present century; that it is oven now 
exelusivcly applied to those criminal causes which come before (he Conm 
of Assize, or to the prosecutions of the public press ; nnd that the jndgs 
and counsellors of the numerous local Iribtmab of Fmncfl — forming a 
body of many thousand judicial functionaries — try all civil eaogcs, appeab 
from eriminal eausca, and minor ofienccs, without the jaij. — EngliJl 
TnauUuor'i A'oi«.] 



MITIGATIONS OP THE TYBANNY OF THE MAJORITY. 861 

nies of sociely at large. The jury is, above all, a political 
institution, and it must be regarded in this light in order to 
be duly appreciated. 

By the jury, I mean a certain number of citizens chosei^ 
by lot, and invested with a temporary right of judging. 
Trial by jury, as applied to the repression of crime, appears 
to me an eminently republican element in the government, 
for the following reasons. 

The institution of the jury may be aristocratic or demo- 
cratic, according to the class from which the jurors are 
taken ; but it always preserves its republican character, in 
that it places the real direction of society in the hands of 
the governed, or of a portion of the governed, and not ûx 
that of the government. Force is never more than a tran- 
sient element of success, and after force, comes the notion 
of right. A government which should be able to reach 
its enemies only upon a field of battle would soon be de- 
stroyed. The true sanction of political laws is to be found 
in penal legislation ; and if that sanction be wanting, the 
law will sooner or later lose its cogency. He who pun- 
ishes the criminal is therefore the real master of society. 
Now, the institution of the jury raises the people itself, or 
at least a class of citizens, to the bench of judges. The 
institution of the jury consequently invests the people, or 
that class of citizens, with the direction of society.* 

In England, the jury is returned from the aristocratic 
portion of the nation;! the aristocracy makes the laws, 

* An important remark muBt, howerer, be made. Trial bj jorj does 
nnquestionably invest the people with a general control over the actions of 
the citizens, but it does not famish means of exercising this control in all 
cases, or with an absolute anthority. When an aSsolnte monarch has the 
right of trying oflfcnccs by his representatives, the fate of the prisoner is, 
as it were, decided beforehand. Bat even if the people were predisposed 
to convict, the composition and the non-responsibility of the jury would 
still afford some chances favorable to the protection of innocence. 

t In France, the qualification of the jurors is the same as the eleetoial 

16 



862 DEMOCBACT IN AMERICA. 

applies the laws, and punishes infractions of the laws 
everything is established upon a consistent footing, and 
England may with truth be said to constitute an aristo- 
cratic republic. In the United States, the same system is 
applied to the whole people. Every American citizen is 
qualified to be an elector, a juror, and is eligible to oflSce.* 
The system of the jury, as it is understood in America, 
appears to me to be as direct and as extreme a consequence 
of the sovereignty of the people as universal suffrage. 
They arc two instruments of equal power, which contrib- 
ute to the supremacy of the majority. All tlie sovereigns 
who have chosen to govern by their own autliority, and to 
direct society instead of obeying its directions, have de- 
stroyed or enfeebled the institution of the jury. The 
Tudor monarchs sent to prison jurors who refused to 
convict, and Napoleon caused them to be selected by his 
agents. 

However clear most of these truths may seem to be, 
they do not command universal assent ; and, in France at 
least, tlie trial by jury is still but imperfectly understood. 
If the question arises as to the proper qualification of jurors, 
it is confined to a discussion of the intelligence and knowl- 
edge of the citizens who may be returned, as if the jury 
was merely a judicial institution. This appears to me the 

qualification, namely, the payment of 200 francs per annum in dirc&lt;rt taxes : 
they arc clioscn by lot. In England, they arc returned by the sheriff; the 
qualifications of jurors were raised to £10 per annum in En&lt;;Iand, and £6 
in Wales, of freehold lands or copyhold, by the statute W. and M., c. 24 ; 
leaseholders for a time determinable upon life or lives, of the clear yearly 
value of £ 20 per annum over and above the rent reserved, arc qualified to 
6cr\*e on juries ; and jurors in the courts of Westminster and City of London 
must be householders, and possessed of real and pcreonal estate of the value 
of £100. The qualifications, however, prescribctl in different statutes varf 
acconliiij; to the object for wliieh the jury is impanelled. Sco Blackstone'i 
Commentaries, Book III. c. 23. — English TrwisIator*s Note. 
♦ Sec Appendix Q. 



MITIGATIONS OF THE TYBANNY OF THE MAJORITY. 368 

least important part of the subject. The jury is pre-emî • 
nently a pohtical institution ; it should be regarded as one 
form of the sovereignty of the people : when that sover- 
eignty is repudiated, it must be rejected, or it must be 
adapted to the laws by which that sovereignty is estab- 
lished. The jury is that portion of the nation to which 
the execution of the laws is intrusted, as the legislature is 
that part of the nation which makes the laws ; and in or- 
der that society may be governed in a fixed and uniform 
manner, the list of citizens qualified to serve on juries must 
increase and diminish with the list of electors. This I hold 
to be the point of view most worthy of the attention of the 
legislator ; all that remains is merely accessory. 

I am so entirely convinced that the jury is pre-eminently 
a political institution, that I still consider it in this light 
when it is applied in civil causes. Laws are always unstar 
ble unless they are founded upon the manners of a nation : 
manners are the only durable and resisting power in a peo- 
ple. When the jury is reserved for criminal offences, the 
, people only witness its occasional action in particular cases : 
they become accustomed to do without it in the ordinary 
course of life ; and it is considered as an instrument, but 
not as the only instrument, of obtaining justice. Tliis is 
true a fortiori^ when the jury is appUed only to certain 
criminal causes. 

When, on the contrary, the jury acts also on civil causes, 
its ap])Iication is constantly visible ; it affects all the inter- 
ests of the community ; every one co-operates in its work : 
it tlius penetrates into all the usages of life, it fashions the 
human mind to its peculiar forms, and is gradually associ- 
ated with the idea of justice itself. 

The institution of the jury, if confined to criminal 
causes, is always in danger ; but when once it is intro- 
duced into civil proceedings, it defies the aggressions of 
time and man. If it had been as easy to remove the jury 



■.Ji™ -^-iti 



864 DEliOGRACT SV AJOBIOA. 

from the manners as from the kws of Enj^and, it 
have perished under the Tndors } and the dvQ juiy did ii 
reality, at that period, save the liberties of En^andL fit 
whatever manner the jury be applied, it camiot &amp;il to eoDOP» 
cise a pdwerful influence upon the national chancter ; bol 
this influence is prodigioualj increased when it is intznK 
diiced into civil causes. The jury, and more especially tbe 
civil jury, serves to communicate the spirit of the judges to 
the minds of all the citizoos ; and this spirit, with the hab* 
its which attend it, is the soundest preparation finr free 
institutions. It imbues all classes with a respect for ibé 
thing judged, and with the notion of right. If these two 
elements be removed, the love of independence beoomai 
a mere destructive passion. It teaches men to practioe 
equity ; every man learns to judge his neighbor as he 
would himself be judged. And this is especially true of 
the jury in civil causes ; for, whilst the number of persons 
who have reason to apprehend a criminal prosecution is 
small, every one is liable to have a lawsuit. The jury 
teaches every man not to recoil before the responsibility 
of his o^vn actions, and impresses him with that manty 
confidence without which no political virtue can exist. It 
invests each citizen with a kind of magistracy ; it makes 
them all feel the duties which they are bound to discharge 
towards society, and the part which they take in its gov- 
ernment. By obliging men to turn their attention to other 
affairs than their own, it rubs off that private selfishness 
which is the rust of society. 

The jury contributes powerfully to form the judgment 
and to increase the natural intelligence of a people ; and 
this, in my opinion, is its greatest advantage. It may be 
regarded as a gratuitous public school, ever open, in which 
every juror learns his rights, enters into daily communica- 
tion with the most learned and enlightened members of the 
upper classes, and becomes practically acquainted with the 



UTIGATIONS Of THK TTBAHHT OF THE UAJOBTTT. SD9 

lawi, which are brought within the reach of his capacity 
by the efforts of the bar, the advice of the judge, and even 
hj the passions of the parties. I think that the practical 
mt«Uigence and political good sense of the Americans are 
mainly attributable to the long use which they have made 
of the jury in civil causes. 

I do not know whether the jury is useful to those who 
have lawsuits ; but I am certain it is highly beneficial to 
those who judge them ; and I look upon it as one of the 
most efficacious means for the education of the people 
which society can employ. 

What I have said applies to all nations ; but the remark 
I am about to make is peculiar to the Americans and to 
democratic communities. I h^ve already observed that, in 
democracies, the members of the legal profession, and the 
judicial magistrates, constitute the only aristocrate body 
which can moderate the movements of the people. This 
aristocracy is invested with no physical power ; it exercises 
its conservative influence upon the minds of men : and the 
most abundant source of its authority is tlie institution 
of the civil jury. In criminal causes, when society is con- 
tending against a single man, the jury is apt to look upon 
the judge as the passive instrument of social power, and 
to mistrust his advice. Moreover, criminal causes turn en- 
tirely upon simple facts, which commou sense can readily 
appreciate ; upon this ground, the judge and the jury are 
equal. Such, however, is not the case in civil causes ; 
then the judge appears as' a disinterested arbiter between 
the conflicting passions of the parties. The jurors look op 
to him witli confidence, and listen to him with respect, fbr 
in this instance, his intellect entirely governs theirs. It is 
the judge who sums up the various arguments which hare 
wearied their memory, and who guides them tlu-ough the 
devious course of the proceedings ; he points their attei&gt;- 
tioD to the exact question of &amp;ct, which they are called 



$66 DEMOCBACY IN ASIEItlCiL 

upon to decide, and tc!Ia ihom how to answer the question 
of law. Hia influence over them is almost unlimited. 

If I am called upon to exphùn why I am but little 
moved by the arg;umenta derived from the ignorance of 
jurors in civil causes, I reply, that in these proceedings, 
whenever the question to be solved is not a mere ques- 
tion of &amp;ct, tlie jury has only the semblance of a judi- 
cial body. The jury only sanctions the decision of the 
judge ; they sanction this decision by tlio authority of 
society which they represent, and he, by that of reason 
and of law." 

In England and in America, the judges exercise an in^ 
fluence upon criminal trials which the French judges have 
never possessed. The reason of this difference may easily 
be discovered ; the English and American magistrates have 
established their authority in civil causes, and only transfer 
it afterwards to tribunals of another kind, where it was not 
first acquired. In some cases, and they are frequently the 
most important ones, the American judges have the ri^t 
of deciding causes alone. f Upon these occasions, they are 
accidentally placed in the position which the French 
judges habitually occupy : but their moral power is much 
greater; they are still surrounded by the recollection trf 
the jury, and their judgment has almost as much authority 
as the voice of the community represented by that institu- 
tion. Their influence extends fer beyond the limita of the 
courts ; in the recreations of private hfe, as well as in the 
turmoil of public business, in pubhe and in the legislative 
assemblies, the American judge is constantly surrounded 
by men who are accustomed to regard his intelligence as 
superior to their own; and after having exercised hia 
power in the decision of causes, he continues to iofiueace 

* Sco Appendix B. 

t Tho FctlcnU jadgts act «lone npon almovt all the qneetioai mort impo» 
taut to tho government of the conntiy. 



HmOATIOSa OF THE TYBASNT OF THE MAJOBITT. 86T 

the babits of thonght, and even the character, of thoBS 
who acted with him in his official capacity. 

The jtuy, then, which seems to reatrict the rights of the ' 
judiciary, does in reality coasolidate its power ; and in no j 
countiy are the judges so powerful as where the people \ 
share their privileges. It is especially by means of the 
joiy in civil causes, that the American ma^strates imbup 
even the lower classes of society with the spirit of their 
profession. Thus tlie jury, which is the most energetic 
means of making the people rule, is also the most efi&amp;c»- 
cious meam of teaching it how to rule well. 



86li DEJfOCRACT IN AUllBICA. ^^^ 

upon to decide, and tells tliem how to answer the question 
of law. His influence over them is almost imlimîtod. 

If I am called upon to explain why I am but little 
moved by the arguments derived from the ignorance of 
jurors in civil causes, I reply, that in these proceedii^s, 
whenever the question to be solved is not a mere ques- 
tion of fact, tlie jury lias only the semblance of a judi- 
cial body. The jury only sanctions the decision of the 
judge ; they sanction this decision by the authority of 
■ocicly which they represent, and he, by that of reason 
Mid of law." 

In England and in America, the judges exercise an in- 
fluiuice upon criminal trials which the French judges have 
never possessed. The reason of this difference may easily 
bo discovered ; the English and American magistrates have 
eetablished their authority in civil causes, and only transfer 
it «flerwarda to tribunals of another kind, where it was not 
first acquired. In some cases, and tliey are frequently the 
most important ones, the American judges have the right 
of deciding causes alone. f Upon these occasions, they are 
accidentally placed in the position wliieh the Freuch 
judges habitually oceujiy : but their moral power is much 
gi-cater ; they are still surrounded by the recollection ot 
the jury, and their judgment has almost as much authori^ 
as the voice of the community represented by that instito^ 
tion. Their influence extends &amp;r beyond the limits of the 
courts ; in the recreations of private life, as well as in the 
turmoil of public business, in public and in the Ic^shitive 
assemblies, tlie American judge is constantly surrounded 
by men who are accustomed to regard his intclhgence as 
Eupenor to their own; and after having exereised his 
power in the decision of causes, he continues to influence 

* Soo Appendix B. 

t The FctlcnU jodgM act «lone npoa almost all tlie qneationi tnott impo» 
lut to tho government of the conntiy. 



irinGATIONS OF THE TTRANNY OF THE MAJOBTTT. 86T 

the habits of thought, and even the characters, of those 
who act«d with him in his official capacity. 

The jiuy, then, which aeeim to restrict the rights of the 
judiciary, does in reality consolidate its power ; and in no 
coontry are the judges so powerful as where the people 
share their privileges. It is especially by means of the 
jury in civil causes, that the American magistrates imbu^ 
even the lower classes of society with the spirit of their 
profession. Thus the jury, which is the moat energetic 
means of making the people rule, is also the most effic^ 
cious means of teaclung it how to rule welL 



DEUOCBACV IN i 



CHAPTER XVII. 



A DEMOCRATIC republic exiats in the United 
States; anil the principal object of this book baa 
been to explain the causes of its existence. Several of 
these causes hove been involuntarily passed by, or only 
hinted at, as I was borne along by my subject. Others I 
Lave been unable to discuss at all ; and those on ■which I 
have dwelt most are, as it were, buried in the details of 
this work. 

I think, therefore, that, before I proceed to speak of 
the future, I ought to collect within a small compass the 
reasons which explain the present. In tliis retrospective 
chapter I shall be brief; for I shall take care to remind ihe 
reader only very eummarOy of what he already knows, 
and eliall select only the most prominent of those fects 
which I have not yet pointed out. 

All the causes which contribute to the midntenance r£ 
the democratic repubUc in the United States are reducible 
to three heads : — 

I. The pecuhar and accidental situation in which Fio^ 
idence has placed the Americans. 

n. The laws. 

ni. The manners and castoms of the people. 



CAUSES WHICH TEND TO MAINTAIN DEMOCRACY. 869 



ACCIDENTAL OK PROVIDENTIAL CAUSES WHICH CONTRIBUTE 
TO MAINTAIN THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC IN THE UNITED 
STATES. 

The Union has no Neighbors. — No Metropolis. — The Americans hare had 
the Chance of Birth in their Favor. — America an empty Country. — 
How this Circumstance contributes powerfully to maintain the Demo- 
cratic Republic in America. — How the American Wilds are peopled. — 
Avidity of the Anglo-Americans in taking Possession of the Solitudes 
of the New World. — Influence of Physical Prosperity upon the Politi- 
cal Opinions of the Americans. 

A THOUSAND circumstances, independent of the will of 
man, facilitate the maintenance of a democratic republic in 
the United States. Some of these are known, the others 
may easily be pointed out ; but I shall confine myself to 
the principal ones. 

The Americans have no neighbors, and consequently they 
have no great wars, or financial crises, or inroads, or con- 
quest, to dread ; they require neither great taxes, nor large 
armies, nor great generals ; and they have nothing to fear 
firom a scourge which is more formidable to republics than 
all these evils combined, namely, military glory. It is im- 
possible to deny the inconceivable influence which military 
glory exercises upon the spirit of a nation. General Jack- 
son, whom the Americans have twice elected to be the 
head of their government, is a man of violent temper and 
very moderate talents; nothing in his whole career ever 
proved him qualified to govern a free people ; and in- 
deed, the majority of the enlightened classes of the Union 
has always opposed him. But he was raised to the Pres- 
idency, and has been maintained there, solely by the recol- 
lection of a victory which he gained, twenty years ago, 
mider the walls of New Orleans ; a victory which was, 
however, a very ordinary achievement, and which could 

only be remembered in a country where battles are rax^^ 

J6# X 




DRMOCRACT DT AMERICA. 

Now lli(! people who are thus parried away by the illusions 
of fçinry urc iinf|U(!8tionably the most cold and calculating, 
the mont iinmilitary, tf I may so apeat, and the most pro- 
■aic, of nil tliti nations of the earth. 

America has no great capital" city, whose direct or 
indirt-ct influence is felt over the whole extent of the coun 
try ; tliia I hold to be one of the firat causes of the main 
timuti&lt;r«3 of republican institutions in the United State». 
In citiea, men cannot be prevented from concerting to- 
guthcr, nnd awakening a mutual excitement which prompts 
HiidiU^n and passionate i^-solutions. Cities may Ije looked 
njioii itH UiTff^ assemblies, of which all tlie inhabitants are 
incnilit-rs ; their populace exercise a prodigious Influence 
up'iti tho magistrates, and frequently execute their own 
wishes without tho intervention of public officei-s. 

* Tho United States hare no metropolis j bot they alrcodj contain mt- 
enl very larj^ cities. Pbiliulclptua reckoned 1GI,000 inhobiisnts, and New 
York 202,000, in tho yesr 1830. Tho lower orders wliich inhabit these 
dtiea «inBlitute a nibble even more fomjidable than tlio popniaco of Eiuo- 
pcan towns. Tliej conaist of (reed blacks, in tho 6rsl place, who arc con- 
clomiied by tho laws and by public opinion to aa hcrediluy state of mÎMiT 
and dcip-QiIallon. Tfacj also contain a mnltitadc of Europeans, who ban 
been driven lo the shores of ihe New World by their misfortoncs or their 
misconduct ; and these men inoculato ihc United Stoics with all our Ticei, 
without briiif^ng with them any of those inlcrests which coilfatcract thdr 
baneful influcnoo. As inhabitants of a ronntry wheto they havo no civil 
rights, they are ready to turn all the passions which agitate the communis 
to their own advantage ; thus, within tlie last few mootha, serious riots have 
broken out in Philadelphia and \a New York. Distttrbances of this kind 
are unkno^vn in Ihe rest of the ctjunliy, which is rtowiso alarmed by them, 
because the jiopntaiian of tlie cities has hitherto exercised neither power nor 
infloence over the rural districis. 

NcTcrtiiclcss. I look upon tho size of certain American cities, and especially 
OQ the nature of their population, al a real danger which tlircalcns the futura 
■ecorily of tho dctnocmiic republies of the Now World ; anil I Tcntur« to 
pndict tlial ihcy wiQ perish from this circumstance, unless tho gOTCnimfflt 
Mifirwdi in creating an armed force, which, while it remains under Ihe con- 
- ifWl irf' the mejoriiy of the nation, will bo independent of 
and able lo reprcM its execu». 



CAUSES WHICH TEND TO MAINTAIN DEMOCRACY. 871 

To subject the provinces to the metropolis is, therefore, 
to place the destiny of the empire in the hands, not only 
of a portion of the commmiity, which is mijust, but in the 
hands of a populace carrying out its own impulses, which 
is very dangerous. The preponderance of capital cities is 
therefore a serious injury to the representative system; 
and it exposes modem republics to the same defect as the 
republics of antiquity, whch all perished from not having 
known this system. 

It would be easy for me to enumerate many secondary 
causes which have contributed to establish, and now con- 
cur to maintain, the democratic republic of the United 
States. But among these favorable circumstances I dis- 
cern two principal ones, which I hasten to point out. I 
have already observed that the origin of the Americans, or 
what I have called their point of departure, may be looked 
upon as the first and most efficaciovis cause to which the 
present prosperity of the United States may be attributed. 
The Americans had the chances of birth in their favor; 
and their forefathers imported that equality of condition 
and of intellect into the country whence the democratic 
republic has very naturally taken its rise. Nor was this 
all; for besides this republican condition of society, the 
early settlers bequeathed to their descendants the customs, 
manners, and opinions which contribute most to the suc- 
cess of a republic. When I reflect upon the consequences 
of tliis primary fact, methinks I see the destiny of America 
embodied in the first Puritan who landed on those shores, 
just as the whole human race was represented by the first 
man. 

The chief circumstance which has favored the establish- 
ment and the maintenance of a democratic republic in the 
United States, is the nature of the territory which the 
Americans mhabit. Their ancestors gave them the love of 
«quality and of freedom ; but God himself gave theia ^^ 



» 



tri DiaiOCBACY n AMEKtCJL 

mouis of r«tDfttning 04)ual and irc«, by placing them i^wn 
• bnumlk» conÛDent. Gcnoral prosperity is favorable to 
ûm stnUtity of aO governments, bat more particiilariy of 
Il dMnocivic ooe, which depends upon the will of the 
nujiirity. uid espocially upon the will of that portion of 
Ûte ooninmnity »hich is moet exposed to want. When 
the people nJc, ihey most be rendered happy, or they will 
otvttnni tha state: and misery stimutatt^â them to those 
•xcesses Id which ambition rou«i:s kings. The physical 
caaw», inaependait of thi.* lawn, which promote gt-neral 
Mtt^iH'ntj, are mora nnnieroiu in America tlian they ever 
h»\f lieen in any other country in the world, at any other 
parit^d of hbtory. In the United States, not only is le^s- 
Iktiixi •Icmocrntic, but Nature herself fiivors the cause of 
the jieopie. 

In what part of human history can be found anything 
■imilar to what b passing before our eyes in North Amer- 
ica? The celebrated communities of antiqui^ were all 
(bunded in the midst of hostile nations, which they were 
obliged to subjugate, before they could flourish in their 
place. Even the modems have found, in some parts of 
South America, vast regions inhabited by a people of infe- 
rior civilization, but who had already occupied and culti- 
vated the soil. To found their new states, it was necessary 
to extirpate or subdue a numerous population, and they 
uiodc civilization blush for its own success. But North 
America was inhabited only by wandering tribes, who had 
no thought of profiling by the natural riches of the soil ; 
that vast country was still, properly speaking, an empty 
continent, a desert land awaiting its inhabitants. 

Everything is extraordinary in America, tlie social con- 
dition of the inhabitants, as well as the laws ; hut the soil 
-Upon which these institutions are founded is more extraor- 
dinary than all the rest. When the earth was given to 
tnen by the Creator, the earth was inexhaustible ; hot mm 



.. r «I 



CAUSES WHICH TEND TO MAINTAIN DEMOCBACY. 874 

were weak and ignorant ; and when they had learned to 
take advantage of the treasures which it contained, they 
ahready covered its surface, and were soon obliged to earn 
by the sword an asylum for repose and freedom. Just then 
North America was discovered, as if it had been kept in 
reserve by the Deity, and had just risen from beneath the 
waters of the deluge. 

That continent still presents, as it did in the primeval 
time, rivers which rise from never-failing sources, green 
and moist solitudes, and limitless fields which the plough- 
share of the husbandman has never turned. In this state, 
it is offered to man, not barbarous, ignorant, and isolated, 
as he was in the early ages, but already in possession of 
tlie most important secrets of nature, united to his fellow* 
men, and instructed by the experience of fifty centuries. 
At this very time, thirteen [twenty-five] miUions of civil- 
ized Europeans are peaceably spreading over those fertile 
plains, with whose resources and extent they are not yet 
themselves accurately acquainted. Three or four thousand 
soldiers drive before them the wandering races of the abo» 
rigines ; these are followed by the pioneers, who pierce the 
woods, scare off the beasts of prey, explore the courses of 
the inland streams, and make ready the triumphal march 
of civilization across the desert. 

Often, in the course of this work, I have alluded to the 
fevorable influence of the material prosperity of America 
upon the institutions of that country. This reason had 
already been given by many others before me, and is the 
only one which, being palpable to the senses, as it were, is 
familiar to Europeans. I shall not, then, enlarge upon a 
subject so often handled and so well understood, beyond 
the addition of a few facts. An erroneous notion is gen- 
erally entertained, that the deserts of America are peopled 
by European emigrants, who annually disembark upon the 
coasts of the New World, whilst the American çoçulaidân 




DEMOCRACY IN A1ŒHICA. 



ÎBcreasG and multiply upon the soil which llieir forefathers 
tilled. The European settler usually arrives in the Uaited 
Stutos without friend», and often without reïoui'ces; to 
order to subsist, he is obliged to work for lilre, and ha 
rarely proceeds beyond that bell of industrious poptdation 
which adjoins tlie ocean. The desert cannot be "t-xplored 
wiihoui capital or credit; and the body must be accua- 
tomed to the rigors of a new climate, before it can be 
expo§ed in the midst of the forest. It is the Americans 
themselves who daily tjuit the spots wliich gave tbcm birth, 
to acquire extensive domains in. a remote region. Thus the 
European leaves his cottage for the Transatlantic shores, 
and the American, who is bom on that veiy coast, plunges 
in bis turn into the wilds of central America. This double 
emigration is incessant ; it begins in the middle of Europe, 
it crosses the Atlantic Ocean, and it advances over the soli- 
tudes of the New World. Milhons of men are marching 
at once towards the same horizon : their language, their 
religion, their manners differ ; tlieir object is the same. 
Fortune has been promised to them somewhere in the 
West, and to the West they go to find it. 

No event can be compared with this continuous removal 
of the human race, except perhaps those irruptions which 
caused the fall of the Koman Empire. Then, as well as 
now, crowds of men were impelled in the same direction, 
to meet and struggle on the same spot ; but the designs of 
Providence were not the same. Then, every new-comer 
brought with him destruction and death ; now, each one 
brings the elements of prosperity and hfe. The future 
atill conceals from us the remote consequences of this mi- 
gration of the Americans towards the West ; but we can 
readily apprehend its immediate results. As a portion of 
the inhabitants annually leave the States in which they 
were bom, the population of these States increases very 
«lowly, although they have long been established. Thus, 



CAUSES WHICH TEND TO MAINTAIN DEMOCBACY. 376 

in Connecticut, which yet contains only fifty-nine inhabit- 
ants to the square mile, the population has not been in* 
creased by more than one quarter in forty years, whilst 
that of England has been augmented by one third in the 
same period. The European emigrant always lands, there- 
fore, in a country wliich is but half fiill, and where hands 
are in request : he becomes a workman in easy circum- 
stances ; his son goes to seek his fortune in unpeopled 
regions, and becomes a rich land-owner. The former 
amasses the capital which the latter invests ; and the 
stranger as well as the native is unacquainted with want. 

The laws of the United States are extremely favorable 
to the division of property ; but a cause more powerful 
than the laws prevents property from being divided to 
excess.* Tliis is very perceptible in the States which are 
at last beginning to be thickly peopled ; Massachusetts is 
the most populous part of the Union ; but it contains only 
eighty inhabitants to the square mile, which is much less 
than in France, where one hundred and sixty-two» are 
reckoned to the same extent of country. But in Massa- 
chusetts, estates are very rarely divided; the eldest son 
generally takes the land, and the others go to seek their 
fortune in their desert. The law has abolished the right 
of primogeniture, but circumstances have concurred to re- 
establish it imder a form of which none can complain, and 
by which no just rights are impaired. 

A single fact will suffice to show the prodigious number 
of individuals who thus leave New England to settle ini 
the wilds. We were assured in 1830, that thirty-six of the- , 
members of Congress were bom in the little State of Con^ ) 
necticut. The population of Connecticut, which consti- 
tutes only one forty-third part of that of the United States, 
thus furnished one eighth of the whole body of represent»- 

* In Now England, estates are very small, bat they are rarely subjected 
to further division. * 



376 DEMOCRACY IN AMERICA. 

tives. The State of Connecticut of itself, however, sends 
only five delegates to Congress ; and the thirty-one others 
sit for the new Western States. If these thirty-one indi- 
viduals had remained in Connecticut, it is probable that, 
instead of becoming rich land-owners, they would have 
remained humble laborers, that they would have lived in 
obscurity without being able to rise into public life, and 
that, far from becoming useful legislators, thpy might have 
been unruly citizens. 

These reflections do not escape the observation of the 
Americans any more than of ourselves. " It cannot be 
doubted," says Chancellor Kent, in his Treatise on Amer- 
ican Law, " that the division of landed estates must pro- 
duce great evils, when it is carried to such excess as that 
each parcel of land is insufficient to support a family ; but 
these disadvantacres have never been felt in the United 
States, and many generations must elapse before they can 
be felt. The extent of our inhabited territory, the abun- 
dance of adjacent land, and the continual stream of emi- 
gration flowing from the shores of the Atlantic towards 
the interior of the country, suffice as yet, and will long 
suffice, to prevent the parcelling out of estates." 

It would be difficult to describe the a\âditv with which 
the American rushes forward to secure this immense booty 
which fortune offers. In the pursuit, he fearlessly braves 
the arrow of the Indian and the diseases of the forest ; ht 
is unimpressed by the silence of the woods ; the approach 
of beasts of prey does not disturb him ; for he is goaded 
onwards by a passion stronger than the love of life. Be- 
fore him lies a boundless continent, and he urges onward 
as if time pressed, and he was afraid of finding no room 
for his exertions. I have spoken of the emigration from 
the older States ; but how shall I describe that which takes 
place from the more recent ones? Fifty years liave 
scarcely elapsed since that of Ohio was founded; the 



CAUSES WHICH TEND TO MAINTAIN DEMOCEACY. 377 

greater part of its inliabitants were not bom within its 
confines ; its capital has been built only tbirty years, and 
its territory is still covered by an immense extent of 
uncultivated fields ; yet already the population of Ohio is 
proceeding westward, and most of the settlers" who de- 
scend to the fertile prairies of Illinois are citizens of Ohio. 
These men left their first country to improve their condi- 
tion ; they quit their second, to amehorate it still more ; 
fortune awaits them everywhere, but not happiness. The 
desire of prosperity is become an ardent and restless pas- 
sion in their minds, which grows by what it feeds on. 
They early broke the ties which bound them to their natal 
earth, and they have contracted no â'esh ones on their way. 
Emigration was at first necessary to them; and it soon 
becomes a sort of game of chance, which they pursue for 
the emotions it excites, as much as fi)r the gain it procures. 

Sometimes the progress of man is so rapid that the des- 
ert reappears behind him. The woods stoop to give him a 
passage, and spring up again when he is past. It is not 
uncommon, in crossing the new States of the West, to 
meet with deserted dwellings in the midst of the wilds ; 
the traveller frequently discovers the vestiges of a It^ 
house in the most sohtary retreat, which bear witness to 
the power, and no less to the inconstancy, of man. In 
these abandoned fields, and over these ruins of a day, the 
primeval forest soon scatters a fresh vegetation ; the beasts 
resume the haunts which were once their own ; and Na- 
ture comes smiling to cover the traces of man witli green 
branches and flowers, which obliterate his ephemeral track. 

I remember, that, in crossing one of the woodland dis- 
tricts which still cover the State of New York, I reached 
the shores of a lake which was embosomed in forests co- 
eval with the world. A small island, covered with woods 
whose thick foliage concealed its banks, rose from the 
centre of the waters. Upon the shores rf the lake, no 



378 DEMOCRACY JN AMEBJCA. 

object attested tlie presence of man, except a column va 
snioke, wliicii miglit be seen on the horizon rising from the 
tops of tlie trees to tlie clouds, and seeming to liang from 
heaven rather than to be mounting lo it. An Indian canoe 
was hauled up on the aajid, which tempted me to visit the 
islet that liad first attracted my attention, and in a few 
minutes I set foot upon its banks. The whole island 
formed one of those delicious solitudes of the New World, 
which ahnost lead civilized niau to regret the haunts of the 
saviigc. A luxuriant vegetation bore witness to the incom- 
parable fhtitfulness of the soil. The deep silence, which is 
common to the wilds of North America, was only broken 
by the monotonous cooing of the wood-pigeons, and the 
tapping of the woodpecker upon the bark of trees. I was 
far from sii]iposlng that this spot bîid ever been inhabited* 
BO completely did Nature seem to be left to herself; but 
when I reached the centre of the isle, I thought that I dis- 
covered some traces of man. I then proceeded to examine 
the surrounding objects with care, and I soon perceived 
that a European had undoubtedly been led to seek a refuge 
in this place. Yet what changes had taken place in tbe 
scene of his labors I The logs which he had hastily hemt 
to build himself a shed had sprouted airesh ; the very 
props were intertwined with living verdure, and his caluii 
was transformed into a bower. In the midst of these 
shrubs, a few stones were to be seen, blackened with fire 
and sprinkled with thin ashes ; here the hearth had no 
doubt been, and the chimney in falling had covered it with 
rubbish, I stood for some lime in silent admiration of the 
resources of Nature and the littleness of man ; and when 
I was obliged to leave that enchanting solitude, I exclaimed 
witli sadness, " Are ruins, then, already here ? " 

In Europe, we are wont to look upon a restless disposi- 
tion, an unbounded desire of riches, and an excessive love 
of independence, as propensities very dangerous to society. 



CAUSES WHICH TEND TO UAINTÂDI DEMOCBACY. 879 

Yet these are the very elemoots wliicli insure a long and 
peaceful &amp;ture to tlie republics of America. Without 
these unquiet passions, the population would collect in cer- 
tain spots, and would soon experience wants like those of 
the Old Worid, which it is difficult to satisfy ; for such is 
die present good fortune of the New World, that tlie vices 
of its inhabiuuits are scarcely less &amp;voral&gt;le to society than 
their virtues. These circumstances exercise a great influ- 
ence on the estimation in which human actons are held in 
the two hemispheres. What we should call cupidity, the 
Americans frequently term a laudable industry ; and th^ 
blame as faint-heartedness what we consider to be the vii^ 
tue of moderate desires. 

In France, simple tastes, orderly manners, domestic 
affections, and the attachment which men feel to the place 
of their birth, are looked upon as great guaranties of the 
tranquillity and happiness of the state. But in America, 
nothing seems to be more prejudicial to society than such 
virtues. The French Canadians, who have feithiully pre- 
served the traditions of their ancient manners, are already 
embarrassed for room upon their small territory ; and this 
little community, which has so recently begun to exist, will 
shortly be a prey to the calamities incident to old nations. 
In Canada, the most enlightened, patriotic, and liumane 
inhabitants make extraordinary efforts to render the peo- 
ple dissatisfied with those simple enjoyments which sUU 
content them. There the seductions of wealth are vaunts 
ed with as much zeal as the charms of a moderate comp^ 
tency in the Old World ; and more exertions are made to 
excite the passions of the citizens there, than to calm them 
elsewhere. If we listen to their accounts, we shall hear 
that nothing is more praiseworthy than to exchange the 
pure and tranquil pleasures which even the poor man tastes 
in his own country, for the sterile delights of prosperity 
under a foreign sky ; to leave the patrimonial heartK, «lÂ 



4 



8Sy DEMOCRACY IN AMERICA. 

iho turf beneath which ooe's forefalhers sleep, — in Bhoi% 
to iibaiidon the living and the dead, in ({uest of fortune. 

At the present time, America presenU a field for honnui 
effort fer more extensive than any sum of labor which can 
be applied to work it. In America, too mnch knowledge 
cannot be diffused ; for all knowledge, whilst it may serve 
liim who possesses it, turns also to tho advantage of thoee 
who are without it. New wants are not to be feared there, 
sinte they can be satisfied witliout difficulty; tlie growth 
of Imnuui passions need not be dreaded, since all passions 
may find an easy and a le^timate object ; nor can men 
there be made too free, smce they are scarcely ever tempt- 
ed to misuse their hberties. 

The American republics of the present day are like coair 
panics of adventurers, formed to explore in common tha 
waste lands of the New World, and busied in a floimshing 
trade. The passions which agitate the Americans most 
deeply are not their political, but their commercial, pas- 
sions ; or, rather, they introduce the habits of business into 
their political life. They love order, without which aâurs 
do not prosper ; and tliey set an especial value upon regu- 
lar conduct, which is the foundation of a solid business. 
They prefer the good sense which amasses large fortunes 
to that enterprising genius which frequently dissipates 
them ; general ideas alarm their minds, which are accus- 
tomed to positive calculations ; and they hold practice in 
more honor than theory. 

It is in America that one learns to understand the influ- 
ence which physical prosperity exercises over political ac- 
tions, and even over opinions which ought to acknowledge 
no sway but that of reason ; and it is more especially 
among strangers that this truth is perceptible. Most of 
the European emigrants to tlie New World cany with 
ihern that wild love of independence and change which 
our calamities are so apt to produce. I sometimes met 



CAUSES WHICH TEND TO MAINTAIN DEMOCRACY. 381 

wîth Europeans în the United States, who had been obliged 
to leave their country on account of their political opinions. 
They all astonished me by the language they held, but one 
of them surprised me more than all the rest. As I was 
crossing one of the most remote districts of Pennsylvania, 
I was benighted, and obliged to beg for hospitality at the 
gate of a wealthy planter, who was a Frenchman by birth. 
He bade me sit down beside his fire, and we began to talk 
with that freedom which befits persons who meet in the 
backwoods, two thousand leagues from their native coun- 
try. I was aware that my host had been a great leveller 
and an ardent demagogue forty years ago, and that his 
name was in history. I was therefore not a little surprised 
to hear him discuss tlie rights of property as an economist 
or a land-owner might have done : he spoke of the neces- 
sary gradations which fortune establishes among men, of 
obedience to established laws, of the influence of good 
morals in commonwealtlis, and of the support which relig- 
ious opinions give to order and to freedom ; he even went 
so far as to quote the authority of our Saviour in support 
of one of his political opinions. 

I listened, and marv^elled at the feebleness of human rea- 
son. How can we discover whether a proposition is true 
or false, in the midst of the uncertainties of science and the 
conflicting lessons of experience ? A new feet disperses all 
my doubts. I was poor, I have become rich ; and I am 
not to expect that prosperity will act upon my conduct, 
and leave my judgment free. In truth, my opinions 
change with my fortune ; and the happy circumstances 
which I turn to my advantage furnish me with that deci- 
sive argument which was before wanting. 

The influence of prosperity acts still more freely upon 
Americans than upon strangers. The American has al- 
ways seen public order and pubUc prosperity intimately 
united, and proceeding side by side before his eyes ; h&amp; 



382 I&gt;EM0CBAC1i- IS AMERICA. 

cannot e^en imagine that one can Bubeist without the 
other : he has therefore nothing to forget ; nor bas ho. 
like so many Europeans, to unk&gt;am the lessons of his early 
educatioD. 



Three pnndpgJ Csosei of the Sluntsnan're of tb« Dciaocntic Itdptitilic. — 
Fisiisral Union. — Townihip Insdtulioiia, — Jndiri&amp;i Power. 

The principal aim of this book liaa heen to make known 
the laws of the United States ; if this pur[)08e has been 
accomplished, the reader is already enabled to judge for 
himself which arc the laws tliat really tend to maintain 
tlio democratic republic, and which endanger its existence- 
If I have not succeeded in explmning this in the whcJe 
course of my work, I cannot hope to do so in a sin^e 
chapter. It is not my intention to retrace the path I hare 
already pursued ; and a few lines will suffice to recapitu- 
late what I have said. 

Tliree circumstances aeem to me to contribute more than 
all otbers to tlie maintenance of the democratic republic in 
the Unite&lt;l States. 

Tlie first is tliat federal form of government which the 
Americans have adopted, and which enables the Union to 
combine the power of a great republic with the secuiitf 
of a small one ; 

The second consists in those township institutions which 
limit the despotism of the majority, and at the same dme 
impart to the people a taste for freedom, and the art of 
being free ; 

T!ie tbird is to he found in the constitution of the 
judicial power. I have shown how the courts of justice 
serve to I'cpress the excesses of democracy, and how they 
check and direct the impulses of the majority withont slop' 
ping its activity. , 



CAUSES WHICH TEND TO MADTTAIH DEMOCRACY. 388 



I HAVE previously remarked that tlie manners of the 
people may be considered as one of the great general 
causes to which the maintenance of a democratic republic 
in the United States is attributable. I here use the word 
mamia-s with the meaning which the ancients attached to 
the word mares; for I apply it not only to manners proper- 
ly so called, — tliat is, to what might be termed the habtit 
of the heart, — but to the various notions and opinions cur- 
rent among men, and to the mass of those ideas which con- 
stitute their character of mind. I comprise under this 
term, therefore, the whole moral and intellectual condition 
of a people. My intention is not to draw a picture of 
American manners, but simply to point out such features 
of them as are Ëivorable to the maintenance of their pohtt- 
cal institutions. 



KSLIGION CONSIDERED A9 A POUTICAL INOTFrUTION, WHICH 
POWERFULLY CONTRIBUTES TO THE MAINTENANCE OP THE 
DEMOCRATIC EEPUBIJC AMONGST THE AMERICANS. 

North Amcrion peopled b; Men who profcned a Democratic and RcpnhUcMi 
Chrisliunily. — Arrivikl of the Catholics. — Wh j tho CatlioUca now (am 
tho most Democratic and moat Bopnblican Claw. 

By the side of every religion is to be found a political 
opinion, which is connected with it by affinity. If the 
human mind be left to follow its own bent, it will regulate 
the temporal and spiritual instjtutions of society in a un&gt;- 
form manner ; and man will endeavor, if I may so speak, 
to harmonize earth with heaven. 

The greatest part of British America was peopled by 
men who, after having shaken ofif the authority &lt;£. ^a 



384 DESllXUACÏ IN AMERICA. 

Pope, acknowledged no other rvIigioiK supremacy: tl«y 
brouglil with tliimi into the New World a form of Chrift- 
tianitj', which I cannot better describe than by styling ît 
a democratic aiid republican religion. This contribated 
powerfully to the estalihshment of a repubhc and a de- 
mocracy in public affairs ; and from the be^ning, polities 
and religion contracted an aUiance which has never been 
dissolved, . 

Aljout fifty years ago, Ireland began to pour a Catholic 
population into the United States ; and on their part, the 
Catliolics of America made proselytes, so that, at the pra»- 
ent moment, more than a million of Christians, profesai^ 
the truths of the Church of Rome, are to be found in the 
Union. These CathoUcs are fitithful to the observances of 
their religion ; they ai-o fervent and zealous in the beHrf 
of their doctrines. Yet they constitute the most repub- 
lican and the most democratic class in the United States. 
This fact may surprise the observer at first, but the causes 
of it may easily be discovered upon reflection. 

I think that the Catholic religion has erroneously been 
regarded as the natural enemy of democracy. Amongst 
the various sectâ of Christiana, Oathohcism seems to me, 
on the contrary, to be one of the most favorable to equality 
of condition among men. In the Catholic Church, the 
religious community is composed of only two elements ; 
the priest and the people. The priest alone rises above 
the rank of his flock, and all below him are equal. 

On doctrinal points, the Catholic fal\h places all humau 
capacities upon the same level ; it subjects the wise and 
ignorant, the man of genius and the vulgar crowd, to tha 
details of the same creed ; it imposes the same observances 
upon the rich and needy, it inflicts the same austerities 
npon the strong and the weak ; it listens to no compromise 
ViUi.mortal man, but, reducing all the human race te the 
Wne Standard, it confounds all the distinctions of society 



CAUSES WHICH TEND TO MAINTAIN DEUOCBACT. 885 

at the foot of the same altar, even as thej are confounded 
in the sight of God. If Catholicbm predisposes the faith- 
fid to obedience, it certainly does not prepare them for in- 
eqnali^ : but the contrary maj be said of Proteetantism, 
which generally tends to make men independent, more 
than to render them equal. Catholicism is like an abso- 
lute monarchy ; if the sovereign be removed, all the other 
classes of society are more equal than in republics. 

It has not unfrequendy occurred that the Cathohc priest 
has left the service of the altar to mix with the governing 
powers of socie^, and to take his place amongst the civil 
ranks of men. This religions influence has sometimes 
been used to secure the duration of that political state of 
things to wliich he belonged. Thus we have seen Cath- 
olics taking the side of aristocracy from a religious motive. 
But no sooner is the priesthood entirely separated fr^mi 
the gOTemmcnt, as is the case in the United States, than 
it is found that no class of men are more naturally disposed 
than the Catholics to transfer the doctrine of the equality 
of condition into the political world. 

If, then, tlie Catholic citizens of the United States ara 
not forcibly led by the nature of their tenets to adopt dem- 
ocratic and republican principles, at least they are not 
necessarily opposed to them ; and their social position, as 
well as their limited number, obliges them to adopt these 
opinions. Most of the Catholics are poor, and they have 
no chance of taking a part in the government unless it be 
open to all the citizens. They constitute a minority, and 
all rights must be respected in order to insure to them the 
firee exercise of their own privileges. These two cause* 
induce them, even unconsciously, to adopt political doo* 
trines which tliey would perhaps support with less zeal if 
they were rich and preponderant. 

The Catholic clergy of the United States have nertf 
attempted to oppose this political tendency \ but tluK^ vada. 



886 DEHOGSACT IN AMERICA. 

rather to justify it The Catholic priests in America Lave 
divided the intellectual worid into two parts : in the one, 
they place the doctrines of revealed religion, which thejr 
assent to without discussion ; in the other, they leave those 
political truths, which they believe the Deily has left open 
to free inquiry. Thus the Catholics of the United States 
are at the same time the most submissive beUeveia and the 
most independent citizens. 

It may be asserted, then, that in the United States no 
religious doctrine displays the slightest hostility to demo- 
cratic and republican institutions. The clergy of all the 
different sects there hold the same language ; their opinions 
are in agreement with the laws, and the human mind flows 
onwards, so to speak, in one undivided current. 

I happened to be staying in one of the largest cities in 
the Union, when I was invited to attend a public meeting 
in favor of the Poles, and of sending them supplies of 
arms and money. I found two or three tlioasand persons 
collected in a vast liall, which had been prepared to receive 
tliem. In a short time, a priest, in his ecclesiastical robes, 
advanced to the front of the platform : the spectators rose, 
and stood uncovered in silence, whilst he spoke in the fol- 
lowing terms: — 

" Almighty God ! the God of armies ! Thou who didst " 
strengthen the hearts and guide the arms of our fitthers 
when they were fighting for the sacred rights of their 
national independence! Thou who didst make them tri- 
umph over a hateful oppression, and hast granted to our 
people the benefits of liberty and peace I turn, O Lord, a 
favorable eye upon the other hemisphere; pitifully look 
down ui)on an heroic nation which is even now struggling 
as we did in the former time, and for the same rights. 
Thou, who didst create man in the same image, let not 
tyranny mar tliy work, and establish inequality upon the 
earth. Almiglily CjoâL\ Aa Xkovi ^atoh over the dehitiny 



CAUSES WHICH TEND TO MAETTAra DEMOCBACY. 387 

of the Poles, and make them worthy to be free. May thy 
wisdom direct their councila, may tliy strength sustain 
"their arms I Shed forth thy terror over their enemies ; 
scatter the powers wtiich take counsel against them ; and 
permit not the injustice which the world has witnessed for 
fifty years to be consummated in our time. O Lord, who 
boldest alike the hearts of nations and of men in thy pow- 
erhil hand, raise up allies to the sacred cause of right; 
arouse the French nation from the apatliy in which its 
rulers retain it, that it may go forth again to fight for the 
liberties of the world. 

** Lord, turn not thou thy &amp;ce from us, and grant that 
we may always be the most religious, as well as the freest, 
people of tlie earth. Almighty God, hear our supplicar 
tions tliis day. Save the Poles, we beseech thee, in the 
name of thy well-beloved Son, our Lord Jesus Christ, who 
died upon the cross for the salvation of all men. Amen." 

The whole meeting responded, " Amen I " with devotion. 



Christian Moratitj common to all Secti. — Influeaco of Religion upon the 
Manners of the Americana. — Respect for the MBiriago Tie. — Hot 
Religion conRncs the Imnginatloii of tlio Amcriraiis witliin certain Lim- 
ita, nni] checks iho Paiwion for Innovation. — Opinion of tho Amercnnt 
on the political Utility of Religion. — Their Exertions to extenil and 
■ecoro its AndioriC;. 

I HAVE just shown what the direct influence of religion 
upon politics is in die United States ; but its indirect in- 
fluence appears to me to be still more considerable, and it 
never instructs the Americans more fully in the art of 
being free than when it says nothing of freedom. 

The sects whicli exist in the United States are imuk- 



S88 DEMOCRACr IN AMEBICA. 

merable. They aJl diifer in respect to the worehip whic^ 
is due to the Creator ; but they all agree in TMpect to the 
duties which are due from man to man. Eacli sect adores 
the Deity in its own peculiar manner ; but all sects preach 
tbe same moral law in the name o( God. If it he of the 
liiglifst importance to man, us &amp;n individual, that his relig- 
ion should he true, it is not so to society. Society bas no 
future life to hope for or to fear ; and provided the citizens 
profess a religion, the peculiar tenets of that religion are 
of little importance to its interests. liloreover, all the 
sects of the United States are compnsed within the great 
unity of Christianity, and Christian morality is everywhere 
the same. 

It may feirly be believed, that a certain number of 
Americans pursue a peculiar form of worship fi-om habit 
more than from conviction. In the United States, the 
sovereign authority is religious, and consequently hypocrisy 
must he common ; hut there is no country in the world 
where the Christian religion retains a greater influence 
over the souls of men than in America ; and there can be 
no greater proof of its utility, and of its conformity to 
human nature, than that its influence is powerfully felt 
over the most enlightened and free nation of the earth. 

I have remarked tliat the American clergy in general, 
without even excepting those wlio do not admit religious 
liberty, are all in favor of civil freedom ; hut they do not 
support any particular political system. They keep aloof 
from parties, and from public aflairs. In the United 
Slates, religion exercises but little influence upon the laws, 
and upon the details of public opinion j but it directs the 
manners of the community, and, by regulating domestic 
life, it regulates the state. 

I do not question that the great austerity of manners 
■which is observable in the United States arises, in the first 
instance, from religious faith. Keligion is oficn unable to 



CAUSES WfflOH TEND TO MAINTAIN DEMOCRACY. 889 

restrain man from the numiberless temptations which 
chance offers ; nor can it check that passion for gain which 
everything contributes to arouse: but its influence over 
the mind of woman is supreme, and women are die pro- 
tectors of morals. There is certainly no country in the 
world where the tie of marriage is more respected than in 
America, or where conjugal happiness is more highly or 
worthily appreciated. In Europe, almost all the disturb- 
ances of society arise firom the irregularities of domestic 
life. To despise the natural bonds and legitimate pleasures 
of home, is to contract a taste for excesses, a restlessness 
of heart, and fluctuating desires. Agitated by the tumul- 
tuous passions which fi^uently disturb his dwelling, the 
European is galled by the obedience which the legislative 
powers of the state exact. But when the American 
retires from the turmoil of public life to the bosom of his 
family, he finds in it the image of order and of peace. 
There his pleasures are simple and natural, his joys are 
innocent and calm ; and as he finds that an orderly life is 
the surest path to happiness, he accustoms himself easily 
to moderate his opinions as well as his tastes. Whilst the 
European endeavors to forget his domestic troubles by agi- 
tating society, the American derives from his own home 
that love of order which he afterwards carries with him 
into public affairs. 

In the United States, the influence of religion is not 
confined to the manners, but it extends to the intelligence, 
of the people. Amongst the Anglo-Americans, some pro- 
fess the doctrines of Christianity from a sincere belief in 
them, and others do the same because they fear to be sus- 
pected of unbelief. Christianity, therefore, reigns without 
obstacle, by universal consent; the consequence is, as I 
have before observed, that every principle of the moral 
world is fixed and determinate, although the political world 
is abandoned to the debates and the experiments of men. 



S90 DEMOCBAOV IN AMKBICA. ^ 

Thus the human mind is never left to wander over a 
boundless field ; and, whatever may be its pretension», it 
is checked from time to time by barriers which it can- 
not surmount. Before it can innovate, certain primary 
principles are laid down, and the boldest conceptions are 
subjected to certain forma wliich retard and stop their 
completion. 

The imagination of the Americans, even in its greatest 
flighls, is circumspect and undecided ; its impulses ore 
checked, and its works unfinished. These habits of re- 
straint recur in political society, and are singularly favora- 
ble both to the tranquillity of the people and the durability 
of the institutions they have estabUsbed. Nature and cir- 
cumstances have made the inhabitants of the United States 
bold," as is sufficiently attested by tlie enterprising spirit 
with wliicli they seek for fortune. If the mind of the 
Americans were free from all trammels, they would shortly 
become tlie most daring innovators and the most persistent 
disputants in the world. But the revolutionists of Amer- 
ica are obliged to profess an ostensible respect for Christian 
morality and equity, which does not permit them to violate 
Wantonly the laws that oppose their designs ; nor would 
they find it easy to surmount the scruples of their parti- 
, sans, even if tliey were able to get over tlieir own. Hith- 
I erto, no one in the United States has dared to advance the 
■t.maxim that everything is permissible for the interests of 
society, — an impious adage, which seems to have been 
invented in an age of freedom to shelter all fiiture tyrants. 
Thus, whilst the law permits the Americans to do what 
they please, religion prevents them from conceiving, and 
forbids them to commit, what is rash or unjust. 

Religion in America takes no direct part in the govern- 
ment of society, but it must be regarded as the first of 
their political institutions ; for if it does not impart a taste 
for freedom, it facilitates the use of it. Indeed, it is is 



CAUSES WHICH TEND TO MAINTAIN DEMOCBACY. 391 

this same point of view that the inhabitants of the United 
States themselves look upon reUgious beUef. I do not 
know whether all the Americans have a sincere faith in 
their religion, — for who can search the himian heart ? — 
but I am certain that they hold it to be indispensable to 
the maintenance of repubUcan institutions. This opinion 
is not peci^liar to a class of citizens, or to a party, but it 
belongs to the whole nation, and to every rank of society. 

In the United States, if a poUtician attacks a sect, this 
may not prevent the partisans of that very sect from sup- 
porting him ; but if he attacks all the sects together, every 
one abandons him, and he remains alone. 

Whilst I was in America, a witness, who happened to be 
called at the Sessions of the county of Chester (State of 
New York), declared that he did not believe in the exist- 
ence of God, or in the immortahty of the soul. The judge 
refused to admit his evidence, on tlie ground that the wit- 
ness had destroyed beforehand all the confidence of the 
court in what he was about to say.* The newspapers 
related the fact without any further comment. 

* The New York Spectator of August 23, 1831, relates the fact in the 
following terms : " The Court of Common Fleas of Chester County (New 
York) a few days since rejected a witness who declared his disbelief in the 
existence of God. The presiding judge remarked, that he had not before 
been aware that tliere was a man living who did not believe in the existence 
of God ; that this belief constituted the sanction of all testimony in a court 
of justice ; and that he knew of no cause in a Christian country where a 
witness had been permitted to testify without such belief." 

[The exclusion of the testimony of atheists is not a peculiarity of Ameiv 
ican jurisprudence, but is a principle of the English Common Law, which- 
is still enforced in England as well as in this country. It is not upheld aa 
a mark of respect for the Christian religion, or because an atheist is unwor- 
thy of belief, but because no man is allowed to testify in a court of justice 
except ho is under oath, and an oath has no meaning, because it has no 
sanction, in the mouth of one who does not believe in a just God and a 
future retribution. The atheist is excluded, therefore, not because he does 
not believe what others believe, but because he cannot be sworn. — Ax Ed.\ 



892 DEMOCBACY tH AUKIttCA. 

The Americans combine the notions of Cliristiani^ and 
of liberty so intimatel}' in llieir minds, that it in impossible 
to make tliem conceive the one without the other ; and 
■with them, tliia conviction does not spring from that bar- 
ren, traditionary faith which saeaoi to Tegotat« rather than 
to live in the soul. 

I have known at societies formed by the Americans to 
send out ministers of the Gospel into the new Western 
States, to found schools and clinrchea there, lest religion 
should 1&gt;B suBei-ed to die away in those remote RcttlemenU, 
and the rising States be less titted to enjoy free iiutitutioDS 
than the people from whom they came. I met with weal- 
thy New-Englanders wlio abandoned tlie country in which 
tliey were bom, in order to lay the foundations of Chria- 
tiunity and of freedom on the banks of tlie Missouri, or in 
tlie pr^ries of Illinois. Thus religious zeal is perpetually 
warmed in the United States by the fires of patriotism. 
These men do not act exclusively from a consideration of a. 
future life ; eternity is only one motive of their devotion 
to the cause. If you converse with these missionaries of 
, Christian civihzation, you will he surprised to hear them 
speak so often of the goods of this world, and to meet a 
politician where you expected to find a priest. They will 
tell you, that " all the American republics are collectively 
involved with each other; if the republics of the West 
were to fall into anarchy, or to be mastered by a. despot, 
the republican institutions which now flourish upon the 
shores of the Atlantic Ocean would be in great peril. It 
is therefore our interest that tlie new States should be re- 
ligious, in order that they may permit us to remain free." 

Such are the opinions of the Americans: and if any 
hold that the religious spirit which I admire is the very 
thing most amiss in America, and that the only element 
wanting to the freedom and happiness of the human race 
QD the other side of the ocean is to believe with Spinoza in 



CAUSES WHICH TEND TO UAINTAIN DEMOCRACT. 893 

the etemi^ of the world, or with Cabanis that thou^t is 
secreted by the brain, I can only reply, that those who 
hold this language have never been in America, and that 
tbey have never seen a religious or a free nation. When 
they return &amp;om a visit to that country, we shall hear what 
they have to say. 

There are persons in France who look ilpon republican 
institutions only as a means of obtaining grandeur ; they 
measure the immense space which separates their vices 
and misery &amp;om power and riclies, and they aim to fill up 
this gulf with ruins, that they may pass over it. These 
men are the condottwri of liberty, and fight for their own 
advantage, whatever be the colors they wear. The re- 
public will stand long enough, they think, to draw them 
ap out of their present degr^tion. It is not to these that 
I address myself. But there are others who look forward 
to a repuhUcaii form of government as a tranquil and lasl^ 
ing state, towards which modem society is daily impelled 
by the ideas and manners of the time, and who sincerely 
desire to prepare men to be free. When these men attack 
religious opinions, they obey the dictates of their passions, 
and not of tiieir interests. Despotism may govern without 
&amp;ith, but liberty cannot. Rehgion is much more necessaiy 
in the republic which they set forth in glowing colors, than 
in the monarchy which they attack ; it is more needed in 
democratic republics than in any otliera. How is it possible ' 
that society should escape destruction, if the moral tie be 
not strengthened in proportion as the political tie is re- | 
laxed ? and wliat can be done with a people who are their ■ 
own masters, if they be not salnniasive to the Deity? 



nEMOCRACT IN AMEBICA. 



Cw takun hj ilie Americsiu to wparsto Un- Cburcli flnm th« BOtie. — Tb« 
La»», Pnblit 0|iiiilou, and I'ven lli» Kxeniuiu of tJio ClatCT. a»oor to 
promote lliia End. — InBufiu» of Religion u[Jon iJic Mind in the Uniled 
Sutca BUributaiile to tliu Cuuc. — Boawu of llib. — VTlax b tbc Nmt* 
nral Stato of Mvq with rcgtsd lu Bcligion at the Froseat 'limn. — What 
&amp;rp tlio Pc«uUar uid Inddcnia] Csoses which pnTont Men, in certain 
Couuirio, from uriviug at thii State. 

The jthilosuplicra of the eighteenth century explained in 
« very simple manner the gradual decay of religious fiuth. 
Religious zenl, said they, must necessarily fail the more 

, generally liberty is established and knowledge diffused. 

I Unfortunalfly, the facta by no moans accord \vilh their 
tiieory. There are certain populations in Europe whose 
unbelief is only equalled by their ignorance and debase- 
ment ; whilst in America, one of the freest and moot 
enlightened nations in the world fulfil with fervor all the 
outward duties of reli^on. 

On my arrival in the United States, the reli^ous aspect 
of the country was the first thing that struck my attention; 
and the longer I stayed there, the more I perceived the 
great political consequences resulting from this new state 
of things. In France, I had almost always seen the spirit 
of religion and the spirit of freedom marching in opposite 
directions. But in America, I found they were intimately 
tmited, and that they reigned in common over the same 
country. My desire to discover the causes of this phe 
nomenon increased from day to day. In order to satisfy 
it, I questioned the members of all the different sects; I 
Bought especially the society of the clergy, who are the 
depositaries of the different creeds, and are especially in- 
terested in their duration. As a member of the Roman 
Catholic Church, I was more particularly brought into 



CAUSES WHICH TEND TO MAINTAIN DEMOCBACT. 895 

contact with several of its priests, with whom I became 
intimately acqudnted. To each of these men I expressed 
my astonishment and explained my doubts : I found that 
they differed upon matters of detail alone, and that they all 
attributed the peaceful dominion of religion in their coun- 
try m^nly to the separation of church and state. I do not 
hesitate to affirm, that, during my stay in America, I did 
not meet a single individual, of the clergy or tlie laity, who 
was not of the same opinion upon this point. 

This led me to examine more attenUvely than I had 
hitherto done the station which the American clergy oc- 
cupy in political society. I learned with surprise that they 
filled no public appointments ; * I did not see one of them 
in the administration, and they are not even represented in 
the legislative assemblies.f In several States,:^ the law 
excludes them from political life, public opinion in all. 
And when I came to inquire into the prevailing spirit of 
the clergy, I found that most of its members seemed to 
retire of their own accord from the exercise of power, and 
that they made it the pride of their profession to abstain 
from politics. 

* Unless ttiis term bo applied to the fdnnloiu which man]' of ihcm llil id 
tb« eclioob. Almost all cdutotion is intnuCed to the clcrg;. [This ig too 
«weeping. Clergymen oflen serve apoa aehool eommilteca, or (ill professor. 
■bips in co1tc(!C3, ea tlicj frcqaentlj do in Eorope. But thcj are DOt M 
naraerons es the laily in cither of the» offlcci. —An. Ed.] 

1 They are not represented an suci. Bat they are often elected to repre- 
sent Ihcir tOwnghipB, or oven their States in Congress. — All. El&gt;. 

t See the " Constitution of New York," Alt. VU S 4 : — 

"And whereas the ministers of the Gospel are, bj their profession, dedi- 
cated to tlie service of God and the care of souls, and ought not to b« di- 
verted from the ^''eat duties of their fonctioiu ; therefore no minister of tin 
Ooapel. or priest of any denomination whatsoever, shall at any time here- 
after, under any pretence or description whatever, be eligible to, or capabls 
of holding, Bay civil or military office or place within this Stale." 

See also llic Coualltutions of North Carolina, Art. XXXI. ; Tîrginia; 
South Carolioa, Art. I. 3 S3; Kentucky, An. IL j SSi TetmnoM, kiK. 
Tin. S 1; Lonieiwia, ÂiUlLiaa. 



SM DEMOCRÀOT IK AKEBIQJL 

' I heard tihem inveigh against ambition and deceit, uador 
whatevw political opinions these yioes might chance to 
Imk ; but I learned from their disconrsea that men are 
not guilty in tiie eye of God for any (pinions conoecning 
p&lt;£tical government which Ihey may profesa with sinoep- 
ity, any more than tiiey are for their mistakes in bnildiiig 
a house, or in driving a {arrow. I perceived that theae 
ministers of the Gospel eschewed all parties, with the anxi- 
ety attendant upon personal interest. These &amp;cts con- 
vinced me that what I had been told was true ; and it then 
became my object to investigate their causes, and to inqmn 
how it happened that the real . authorhy of rdi^on was 
increased by a state of things which dimimshed its appaip- 
ent force : these causes did not long escape my researches. 

The short space of threescore years can never content 
the imagination of man ; nor can the imperfect joys of this 
world satisfy his heart. Man alone, of all created beings, 
displays a natural contempt of existence, and yet a boundr 
less desire to exist ; he scorns Ufe, but he dreads annihila- 
tion. These different feelings incessantiy urge his soul to 
the contemplation of a fiiture state, and religion directs his 
musings thither. Religion, then, is simply another form 
of hope ; and it is no less natural to the human heart than 
hope itself. Men cannot abandon their religious faith 
without a kind of aberration of intellect, and a sort of vio- 
lent distortion of their true nature ; they are invincibly 
brought back to more pious sentiments. Unbelief is an 
accident, and faith is the only permanent state of mankind. 
If we consider religious institutions merely in a human 
point of ^-iew, they may be said to derive an inexhaustible 
element of strength from man himself, since they belong to 
one of the constituent principles of human nature. 

I am aware that, at certain times, religion may strengthen 
this influence, which originates in itself, by the artificial 
power of the laws^ «nd. \&gt;^ thi^ auççort of those temporal 



CAUSES VHICH TEND TO UAOITAIN UÏJIUCRACT. 897 

institutions which direct society. Religions intimately 
united with the governments of the earth have been 
known to exercise sovereign power founded on terror and 
feith ; but when a religion contracts an alliance of this 
nature, I do not hesitate to affirm that it commits the same 
error as a man who should sacrifice hia future to his pres- 
ent welfare ; and in obtaining a power to which it has do 
claim, it risks that authority which is rightfully its own. 
When a religion founds its empire only upon the desire of 
immortality which lives in every human heart, it may 
aspire to universal dominion ; but when it connects itself 
with a government, it must adopt maxims which are appli- 
cable on!y to certain nations. Thus, in forming an alliance 1 
with a political power, religion augments its authority over I 
a few, and forfeits the hope of reigning over all. 

As long as a rcli^on rests only upon those sendments 
which afe tlie consolation of all affliction, it may attract 
the affections of all mankind. But if it be mixed up with 
the bitter passions of the world, it may be constrained to 
defend allies whom its interests, and not the principle (rf 
love, have given to it ; or to repel as antagonists men who 
are still attached to it, however opposed they may be to the 
powers with which it is allied. The church cannot share 
the temporal power of the state, without being the object 
of a portion of that animosity which the latter excites. 

The political powers which seem to be most firmly estab- 
lished have frequently no better guaranty for their duration 
than the opinions of a generation, the interests of the time, 
or the life of an individual. A law may modify the social 
condition which seems to be most fixed and determinate ; 
and with the social condition, everything else must change. 
The powers of society are more or less fugitive, hke the 
years which we spend upon earth ; they succeed each 
other with rapidity, like the fleeting cares of life ; and no 
government has ever yet been founded upon aa invasttli&amp;ft 




disposition of the human heart, or upon an imperishable 
interest. 

As long as a religion is siistaine&lt;l by those feelings, pro- 
pensities, and passions which are found to occur under the 
same forms at all periods of history, it may defy the efforts 
of time ; or, at least, it can be destroyed only by another 
religion. But when religion cb'ngs to the interests of the 
■world, it becomes almost as fragile a thing as the powers 
of earth. It is the only one of them all which can hope 
for immortality ; but if it be connected with their ephem- 
eral power, it shares their fortunes, and may Kill with those 
transient passions which alone supported them. The alli- 
ance which reli^on contracts with political powers must 
needs i&gt;e oncroua to itself, since it does not require th«r 
assistance to li\'e. and by giving them its assistance it may 
be exposed to decay. 

The danger which I have just pointed out alwftys exista, 
but it is not always equally visible. In some ages, govern- 
ments seem to be imperishable ; in others, the exbtence (rf 
society appears to be more precarious than the life of man. 
Some constitutions plunge the citizens into a lethargic som- 
nolence, and others rouse them to feverish excitement. 
When governments seem so strong, and laws so stable, 
men do not perceive the dangers which may accrue from a 
union of cliurcli and state. When governments a]^&gt;ear 
weak, and laws inconstant, the danger is self-evident, but 
it is no longer possible to avoid it. We must therefore 
learn how to perceive it from afàr. 

In proportion as a nation assumes a democratic condi^on 
of society, and as communities display democratic propen- 
sities, it becomes more and more dangerous to connect 
religion with political institutions ; for the time is coming 
when anthority will be bandied from band to hand, when 
political theories will succeed each other, and when men, 
laws, and constitutions will disappear or he modified from 



CAUSES WHICH TEND TO MAINTAIN DEMOCRACY. 399 

day to day, and this not for a season only, but nnceasingly. 
Agitation and mutability are inherent in the nature of 
democratic republics, just as stagnation and sleepiness are 
the law of absolute monarchies. 

If the Americans, who change the head of the govern- 
ment once in four years, who elect new legislators every 
two years, and renew the State officers every twelve- 
month, — if the Americans, who have given up the poUtical 
world to the attempts of innovators, had not placed relig- 
ion beyond their reach, where could it take firm hold in 
the ebb and flow of human opinions ? where would be that 
respect which belongs to it, amidst the struggles of fao- 
tion ? and what would become of its immortality, in the 
midst of universal decay ? The American clergy were the 
first to perceive this truth, and to act in conformity with it. 
They saw that they must renounce their religious influence, 
if they were to strive for political power ; and they chose 
to give up the support of the state, rather than to share its 
vicissitudes. 

In America, rehgion is perhaps less powerful than it has 
been at certain periods and among certain nations ; but its 
influence is more lasting. It restricts itself to its own 
resources, but of these none can deprive it : its circle is 
limited, but it pervades it and holds it under undisputed 
control. 

On every side in Europe, we hear voices complaining of 
the absence of religious faith, and inquiring the means of 
restoring to religion some remnant of its former authority. 
It seems to me that we must first attentively consider what 
ought to be tfie natural state of men, with regard to relig- 
ion, at the present time; and when we know what we 
have to hope and to fear, we may discern the end to which 
our efforts ought to be directed. 

The two great dangers which threaten the existence of 



} 



religion are schism and indifference. In ages of fervent l 



400 DEMOCRÂCT K AUEKICA. 

devotion, men sometimes abandon tlieir religion, but tîiey 
only shake one off in order to adopt another. Their Sàth 
changes its objects, but satTcrs no decline. The old reli^ 
ion then excites entliusiastic attachment or bitter enmity 
in either party ; some leave it with anger, otliers cling to it 
witli increased devotedness, and altliough persuasions dif- 
fer, irréligion is nnknoTn. Such, however, is not the case 
wlien a religioat belief is seci-etly undermined by doctriiics 
which may be termed negative, since they deny the truth 
of one religion without affirming that of any other. Pn&gt;- 
digious revolutions then take place in the human mind, 
without the apparent co-opetation of the passions of man, 
and almost without his knowledge. Men lose the objects 
of their fondest liopes, as if through forgetfiJness. Th^ 
are carried away by an imperceptible current, which they 
have not the courage to stem, but which they follow with 
regret, since it bears them away from a faith they love, tn 
a scepticism that plunges them into despair. 

In ages which answer to this description, men desert 
their religious opinions from lukewarmness rather than 
from dislike ; they are not rejected, but they fell away. 
But if the unbeliever does not admit religion to be true, he 
still considers it useful. Regarding religious institutions 
in a human point of view, he acknowledges their inânence 
upon manners and legislation. He admits that they may 
serve to make men live in peace, and prepare them gently 
for the hour of death. He regrets the faith which he has 
lost ; and as he is deprived of a treasure of which he knows 
the value, he fears to take it away from those who still 
possess it. 

On the other hand, those who continue to believe arc 
not afraid openly to avow their feith. They look upon 
those who do not share their persuasion as more worthy 
of pity than of opposition ; and they are aware, that, to 
■oqnire the esteem of the unbelie\-ing, they are not obliged 



CAUSES WHICH TEND TO tUIMTAIH DEMOCBACT. 401 

to follow their example. Thej^ are not hostile, then, to any 
one in the world ; and as they do not consider the society 
in which they live as an arena in which religion is bound 
to &amp;ce ita thousand deadly foes, they love their contem- 
poraries, wliilst they condemn their weaknesses and la- 
ment their errors. 

As those who do not believe conceal their incredulity, 
and as those who believe display their &amp;ith, public opinion 
pronounces itself in fiivor of religion : love, support, and 
honor are bestowed upon it, and it is only by searching the 
human soul that we can detect the wounds which it has 
received. The mass of mankind, who are never withont 
the feeling of religion, do not perceive anything at variance 
with tlie estahhshed faith. The instinctive desire of a 
fiiture life brings the crowd about the altar, and opens the 
hearts of men to the precepts and consolations of religion. 

But tliis picture is not applicable to os ; for there are 
men amongst us who have ceased to believe in Christianity, 
without adopting any other religion ; others are in the 
perplexities of doubt, and already affect not to believe; 
and others, again, are a&amp;iud to avow that Christian feitb 
which they still cherish in secret. 

Amidst these lukewarm partisans and ardent antagonists, 
a small number of believers exists, who are ready to brave 
all obstacles, and to scorn all dangers, in defence of their 
&amp;tth. They have done violence to human weakness, in I 
order to rise superior to public opinion. Excited by the ' 
effort they have made, they scarcely know where to stop ; 
and as they know that the first use which the French made 
of independence was to attack reli^on, they look upon 
their contemporaries with dread, and recoil in alarm from 
the liberty which their fellow-citizens are seeking to obtain. 
As unbelief appears to tliem to be a novelty, they comprise 
all that is new in one indiscriminate animosity. Tliey are 
at war with their age and country, and they look u^o: 




DEMOCRACY CI 



every opinion whïcli is put forUi there as the necessary 
enemy of faith. 

Sudi is not tJie natural state of men with regard to re- 
ligion at the present day ; and some extraordinary or inci- 
dental cause must be at work in France, to prevent the 
human mind from following its natural inclination, and 
drive it beyond the limits at wluch it ought Daturally to 
stop, 

I am fully convinced that this extraordinary and inci- 
dental cause la t)ie close connection of politics and religion. 
The unbelievers of Europe attack the Christians îis their 
political opponents, rather than as their religious ad^-ersa- 
ries ; they hate the Christian religion as the opinion of 
a party, much more tlian as an error of belief; and they 
reject the cler^ less because tliey are llie representatives 
of the Deity, than because they are the allies of govern- 
ment 

In Europe, Christianity has been intimately united to 
the powers of the earth. Those powers are now in decay, 
and it is, as it were, buried under th^ ruins. The living 
body of religion has been bound down to the dead corpse 
of superannuated pohty ; cut but the bonds which restrain 
it, and it will rise once more. I know not what could re- 
store the Christian Church of Europe to the energy of its 
earlier days ; that power belong to God alone ; but it may 
be for human policy to leave to Ëiith the full exercise a£ 
the strength which it still retains. 



k- 



CAUSES WmcH T£ND TO MAIKTÂDI DEMOCEACI. 408 

HOW THE EDUCATION, THE HABITS, AND THB PRACTICAI, 
EXPERIENCE OF THE AHERICANa PROUOTE THE BUCCES8 
OF THEIB DEMOCRATIC tNSTnUTI0M3. 

Whal U lo be nndcwtood by the Education of tha Ameriaui Pooplo. — The 
Humui Mind more superficially insCmctcd in the United Slates than is 
Europe. — No one completely nnimtnicted. — Itoamu of this. — Rapid- 
ity with which Opinions are difliised even in the halfcnltivated Statts 
of the West. — Practical Experience more serriceablo to the Americsnt 
than Book-Lcaming. 

I HAVE bnt little to add to what I have already said, con- 
cerning the influence which the instruction and the habita 
of the Americans exercise upon the maintenance of their 
political inaUtutions. 

America has hitherto produced very few writers of dis- 
tinction ; it possesses no great historians, and not a single 
eminent poet." The inhabitants of that country look upon 
literature properly so called with a kind of disapprobation ; 
and there are towns of second-rate importance in Europe, 
in which more literary works are annually published than 
in the twenty-four States of the Union put together.f 
The spirit of the Americans is averse to general ideas ; it 

* Thia statement was ruthcr loo iwcoping even in 1633, when M. ds 
Tocqncvlllo nrote. But now, when the list of our historioai contains the 
names of Prcscott, Spark», Bancroft, Motley, Palfrey, and Hildroth, and 
that of our poets includes those of Longfellow, Bryaot, Dana, Sprague, 
Lowell, and a crowd of olhera, oui author'a remaik is only cniioDS at 
evincing the suddenness aad rapidity with which literaiy talent has been 
deTelopcd in the United States. — Au. Ed. 

t It is not too much lo say, that as many books are now anonally printed 
and sold in the United Slates as in England. Certainly, what ia now called 
" the reading public " is larger in Amerio, in proportion to the population, 
than in any other country in the world. This is a consequence partly of 
the vrido didiuioD of education, which enables so many lo read books, and 
partly of the general prosperity of the people, which enables still more to 
bay Ihem. Literary pursuits an also held in high honor in lodciy ; a mo- 
eetsful oothor is second lo no one in estimation with the upper classes, or in 
faTor with the common people. — Am. Ed. 



404 DJEMOGRACT IN AMERICA. 

does not seek theoretical discoveries. Neither politics nor 
manufactures direct them to such speculations; and al- 
though new laws are perpetually enacted in the United 
States, no great writers there have hitherto inquired into 
the general prinxnples of legislation. The Americans have 
lawyers and commentators, but no jurists ; and they fiip- 
nish examples rather than lessons to the world. The same 
observation applies to the mechanical arts. In America, 
the inventions of Europe are adopted with sagacity ; they 
are perfected, and adapted with admirable skill to the 
wants of the country. Manu&amp;ctures exist, but the science 
of manufitcture is not cultivated; and they have good 
workmen, but very few inventors.* Fulton was obliged 
to proffer his services to foreign nations for a long time, 
before he was able to devote them to his own country. 

The obserA^er who is desirous of forming an opinion on 
tlie state of instruction amongst the Anglo-Americans must 
consider the same object from two different points of view. 
If he singles out only the learned, he will be astonished to 
find how few tliey are ; but if he counts tlie ignorant, the 
American people will appear to be the most enlightened in 
the world. The whole population, as I observed in another 
place, is situated between these two extremes. 

In New England, every citizen receives the elementary 
notions of human knowledge ; he is taught, moreover, the 
doctrines and the evidences of his religion, the history of 
his country, and the leading features of its Constitution. 
In the States of Connecticut and Massachusetts, it is ex- 
tremely rare to find a man imperfectly acquainted with 
all these things, and a person wholly ignorant of them i» 
a sort of phenomenon. 

* This asscrrion is tho rerj rorerse of the tmth. In no couDtry in tba 
world, during; the lost fifty years, has inrcntive industry been so far derei- 
oped or so successful as in America. Europe copies and adopts Americift 
iaventionB, but fam\a\\ca veiy t&lt;s^ com^vniix^l v^^tticos^ — Am. £i&gt;. 



CAUSES WHICH TEKD TO MAINTAIN DEMOCBACY. 4^ 

When I compare the Greek and Koman republics with 
theje American States ; the manuscript hbraries of the 
former, and their rude population, with the innumerable 
joumala and the enlightened people of the latter ; when I 
remember all the attempts which are made to judge the 
modem republics by the aid of those of antiquity, and to 
infer what will happen in 6ui time from what took place 
two thousand years ago, — I am tempted to bum my 
books, in order to apply none but novel ideas to ao novel 
a condition of society. 

What I have said of New England must not, however, 
be applied indistinctly to the whole Union : as we advance 
towards the West or tlie South, the instruction of the peo- 
ple diminishes. In the States which border on the Gulf 
of Mexico, a ccrtiun number of individuals may be found, 
as in France, who are devoid even of the rudiments of in- 
struction. But there is not a single district in the United 
States sunk in complete ignorance, and for a very simple 
reason. The nations of Europe started from the darkness 
of a barbarous condition, to advance towards the light of 
civilization : their progress has been unequal ; some of 
them have improved apace, whilst others have loitered in 
their course, and some have stopped, and are still sleeping 
upon tiie way. 

Such has not been the case in the United States. The 
Anglo-Americans, already civilized, settled upon that terri- 
tory which their descendants occupy ; they had not to 
begin to learn, and it was sufficient for them not to forget. 
Now the children of these same Americans are the persons 
who, year by year, transport their dwellings into the wilds, 
and, with their dwellings, their acquired information and 
tlieir esteem for knowledge. Education has taught them 
the utility of instruction, and has enabled them to transmit 
that instruction to their posterity. In the United States, 
society lias no in&amp;ncy, but it is bom in man'% «i^aSia. 



406 DEUOCBACr IN AUERICA. 

Tlic Americans never iise the word " peasant," becftoi 
they have no idea of the class which that term d(!not«« ; 
the ignorance of more remote ages, the simplicity of ntral 
life, and the rusticity of tlie villager, have not been pre- 
served amongst them ; and they are alike unacquainted 
with the virtues, the vices, the coarse habits, and ihe sim- 
ple graces of an early stage of civilization. At t]ie extreme 
borders of the Confederate States, upon Ihe confines of 
BOciety and the wilderness, a population of hold adventur- 
ers have taken up their abode, who pierce the solitudes of 
the American woods, and seek a country there, in order to 
escape the poverty which awaited them in their native 
home. As soon as the pioneer reaches the place which is 
to serve him for a retreat, he fells a few trees and builds a 
log-liousc. Nothing can offer a more miserable aspect than 
these isolated dwellings. The traveller who approaches 
one of them towards nightfall sees the flicker of the hearth- 
flame through the chinks in the walls ; and at night, if the 
wind rises, he hears the roof of boughs shake to and fro in 
the midst of the great forest-trees. Who would not sup- 
pose tliat this poor hut is the asylum of rudeness and igno- 
rance ? Yet no sort of comparison can be drawn betwe«i 
the pioneer and the dwelling which shelters him. Every- 
thing about him is primitive and wild, but he is himself the 
result of the labor and experience of eighteen centuries. 
He wears the dress and speaks the language of cities ; he 
is acquainted witli the past, curious about the future, and 
ready for argument upon the present ; he is, in short, a 
highly civilized being, who consents for a time to inhabit 
the backwoods, and who penetrates intq the wilds of the 
New World with the Bible, an axe, and some newspapers. 
It is difHcult to imagine the incredible rapidity with which 
thought circulates in the midst of these deserts,* I do not 

* I tmrcllcd along a portion of tlie Trotiticr of tho Uniicd Statcj in a 
aort of cart, wMch \rag tcirocil Aia nvû\. YT'i ^uaocl, day and nigjbt, with 



CAUSES VEICH TEND TO MAINTAIN DEUOCBAcnT. 407 

Ûànk that so mach intellectual activity exists in the most 
enlightened and populous districts of France.* 

It cannot be doubted tliat, in the United States, the 
instruction of the people powerfnlly contributes to the 
support of tlie democratic republic ; and such must always 
be the case, I believe, where the instruction which en- 
lightens t)ie understanding is not separated from the moral 
education which amends the heart. But I would not exag- 
gerate this advantage, and I am still further from thinking, 
as so many people do think in Europe, that men con be 
instantaneously made citizens by teaching them to read and 
write. True infoimation is mainly derived from experi- 
ence ; and if the Americans had not been gradually accus- 
tomed to govern themselves, their book-learning would not 
help them much at the present day. 

I have lived much with the people in the United States, 
and I cannot express how much I admire their experience 
and their good sense. An American should never be led 
to speak of Europe ; for he will then probably display. 

great rapidity, along the Fonda, irMch were scarcely marked ont through 
immense forCHH. When the gloom of the nooda became impenetrable, the 
driver lighted branches of pine, and wo jonmcjed along by the light thej 
Mit. From time to lime, wo csme to a hnt in tlio midst of the foresl ; thi» 
van a, po5t-uffice. The moil dropped an CDormons bundle of Icltera at the 
door of this isolated dwelling, and vro pnraacd our way at full gallop, Icar- 
mgf the inliabitonls o( the Dcigbboring log-hooeca to send for their ohoro of 
the ircasnrc. 

* In 1633, each inhabitant of Uichigan paid i23 ccnu to iho post-ofRce 
tevcnnc ; and each inholitant of the Florida» paid 30 ecnti. (See National 
Calendar. 1S33, p. S44.) In the oamo year, each ialiabitiint of the Déparle- 
mail du Nonl paid not quite SO cents to the rcTcnuo of t)ic Frvn^^h pofit- 
offlco. (See tlio Compte rradu de F Admnatratioa de» Finança, 1833, p. 633.) 
How the State of Michigan only contained at that time 7 iahitbiiaots per 
(qnare lci^;uc, and Florida only S. The instrnclioa and the commercial 
aetiritj of tlicse distnels are inferior to those of moat of the States in the 
Union ; whilst the D^rlemait da Nord, which contains 3,400 inhahitnnti 
p«r iquiiro Icoguc, is one of the most enlightened and mantilactaiiD^^iMk 
(tf France. 



^ 

^ 



408 DEMOCBACY IN AMERICA. 

much presumption and veiy foolish pride. He will take 
up with those crude and vague notions which are so usefiil 
to the ignorant all over the world. But if you question 
him respecting his own country, the cloud which dimmed 
his intelUgence will immediately disperse ; his language 
will become as clear and precise as his thoughts. He will 
inform you what his rights are, and by what means he 
exercises them ; he will be able to point out die customs 
which obtain in the poUtical world. You will find that he 
is well acquainted with the rules of the administration, and 
that he is familiar with the mechanism of the laws. The 
citizen of the United States does not acquire his practical 
science and his positive notions from books ; the instruc- 
tion he lias acquired may have prepared him for receiving 
those ideas, but it did not furnish them. The American 
learns to know the laws by participating in the act of 
legislation ; and he takes a lesson in the forms of govern- 
ment from governing. The great work of society is ever 
going on before his eyes, and, as it were, under his hands. 

In the United States, politics are the end and aim of 
education ; in Europe, its principal object is to fit men for 
private life. The interference of the citizens in public 
affairs is too rare an occurrence to be provided for before- 
hand. Upon casting a glance over society in the two 
hemispheres, these differences are indicated even by their 
external aspect. 

In Europe, we frequently introduce the ideas and habits 
of private life into public affairs ; and as we pass at once 
from the domestic circle to the government of the state, 
we may frequently be heard to discuss the great interests 
of society in the same manner in which we converse with 
our friends. The Americans, on the other hand, transport 
the habits of public life into their manners in private ; m 
their country, the jury is introduced into the games of 
schoolboys, and parliamentary forms are observed in the 
order of a feast. 



CAUSES WHICH TESD TO HAINTAIH DEMOCRACT. 409 



THB LAW8 CONTBIBUTE UOBS TO THB MAtNTENAKCE OF 
THE DEMOCEATIC REPCBLIC Dt THE nNITED STATES 
THAN THE PHYSICAL CIRCUMSTANCES OF THE COUNTBT, 
AND THE MANNERS MORE THAN THE LAW3. 

AU the HtlioM of AmaricK hvn % Democntic State of Socle^. — T«l 
Démocratie Institutions an iiqipaited 011I7 among the Anglo-Amari- 
caoa. — The Spaniard* of Sotitb Ainetica, as mDch boored b/ niytical 

Canus at the Anglo- Americana, iinable to maintain a Democratic Be. 
public. — Mexico, which haa adopted the CoiutitnlioQ of the United 
States, in the aame Predicnment. — The Aoglo-Americana of the Wed 
leaa able to maintain it than tbû»6 of the Saat. — Reaaon of these Dif- 



I HAVE remarked that the maintenance of democratic 
institutions in tlie United States is attributable to the di^ 
cnmstances, the laws, and the manners of that couotiy.* 
Most Europeans are acquainted with only the first of these 
three causes, and they are apt to give it a preponderant 
importance which it does not really possess. 

It is true that the Anglo-Americans settled in the Kew 
World in a state of social equality ; the low-bom and the 
noble were not to be found amongst them ; and profes- 
sional prejudices were always as tmknown as the preju- 
dices of birth. Thus, as the condition of society was 
democratic, the rule of democracy was established without 
difficulty. But this circumstance is not peculiar to the 
United States ; almost all the American colonies were 
founded by men equal amongst themselves, or who became 
so by inhabiting them. In no one part of the New World 
have Europeans been able to create an aristocracy. Nevei^ 
theless, democratic institutions prosper nowhere but in the 
United States. 

■ I remind the reader of Uie general figniâcation wUch I g^n U the 
word noniMn, — namely, the moral and intellectnal chataelerialici of men 
in eoeiet;. 



410 DEMOCRACY IM AUERICA. 

Tlie American Union has no enemies to contend with ; 
it stands in the wilds like an island in the ocean. Bat dte 
Spaniards of South Amerira were no less isolated hy na- 
ture ; yet their position has not relieved them from tbe 
charge of standing armiesv They make war u|jon each 
other when they have no foreign enemies to oppose ; and 
the Anglo-American democracy is the only one wliich has 
liitherto been able to maintain itself in peace. 

TJie territory of tlie Union presents a boundless field to 
human activity, and inexhauBtiblc materials for labor. Tbe 
passion for wcnlih takes the place of ambition, and the heat 
of faction is mitigated by a consciousness of prosperity. 
But in what portion of the globe shall we find more fertile 
plains, mightier rivers, or more unexplored and inexliaust- 
ible riches, than in South America ? Yet South America 
has been unable to maintain democratic institutions. If 
the welfare of nations depended on their being placed in 
a remote position, with an unbounded space of habitable 
territory before them, the Spaniards of South America 
would liave no reason to complain of their £ite. And 
although they might enjoy less prosperity than the inhab- 
itants of tlie United States, their lot might still be sucb as 
to excite the envy of some nations in Europe. There are, 
however, no nations upon the foce of tlie earth more misér- 
able than tliose of South America. 

Thus, not only are physical causes inadequate to prodace 
results analogous to those wliicb occur in North America, 
but they cannot raise the population of South America 
above tlie level of European states, where they act in a 
contrary direction. Physical causes do not therefore aflTect 
the destiny of nations so much as has been supposed. 

I have met with men In New England who were on 
the point of leaving a country where they might have re- 
mained in easy circumstances, to seek their fortune' in tlie 
wilda. Not far from that region, I found a French popu- 



CAOSES WHICH TEND TO HAINTAIII DEUOCBACT. 411 

laHon in Canada, closely crowded on a narrow territory, 
although ' the same wilds were at hand ; and whilst the 
emigrant from the United States purchased an extensive 
estate with the earnings of a short term of labor, the 
Canadiiui paid as much for land as he would have done in 
France. Thus Nature offers the solitudes of the New 
World to Europeans also ; but they do not always know 
how to make use of her gifts. Other inhabitants of Amer- 
ica have the same physical conditions of prosperity as the 
Anglo-Americans, hut withont their laws and their man- 
ners; and these people are miserable. The laws and 
manners of the Anglo-Americans are therefore that special 
and predominant cause of tlieir greatness which is the 
object ,of my inquiry. 

I am far from supposing that the American laws are pre- 
eminently good in themselves : I do not hold them to be 
applicable to oil democratic naUons ; and several of them 
seem to me to be dangerous, even in tlie United States. 
But it cannot he denied that American legislation, taken as 
a whole, is extremely well adapted to the genius of the peo- 
ple and the nature of the country which it is intended to 
govern. The American laws are therefore good, and to 
tliem must be attributed a large portion of the success 
which attends the government of democracy in America ; 
but I do not believe them to be the principal cause of that 
success ; and if they seem to me to have more influence 
than the nature of the country upon the social happiness 
of the Americans, there is still reason to believe that their 
effect is inferior to that produced by the manners of the 
people. 

The Federal laws undoubtedly constitute the most impoi^ 
tant part of the legislation of the United States. Mexico, 
which is not less fortunately situated than the Anglo- 
American Union, has adopted these same laws, but is oa- 
able to accustom itself to the government c&gt;( d&amp;tii'y^w^- 



418 DEMOCBAOT IM AUBRICA. 

8&lt;&gt;in« other oanae is therefore at work, indvpendentlj of 
phpical «rcunistances and peculiar kwa, whicli enaUaa 
(lif tlfraocracy to rale in tlie United Sutes. 

Anoibcr still nioiv striking proof may be adduced. Al- 
mo«l nil ihe iiiliabitants of the territoiy of the Union are 
Hw diitcendanls of a common stock ; they speak the same 
Iwit^iiagv, tliey vror»hip God in the same manner, they are 
iiSm-ti-d by tht? »aaie physical canses, and they obey the 
Mine law». Whence, then, do their charactvdatic differ- 
eitif* ari« ? Why, m the Eastern States of Uie Union, 
dot's the r«publicati government di^tjilay vigor and repihu&gt; 
itv. and pruee«d with mature deliberation ? Wheneo doee 
it di-rire lh« wisdom and the dursUUty wliich mark iu 
nets. whiUt in tlie Western States, on the contrary, society 
m^m^ to be niled by chance ? There, piiblic business is 
conducted n-ith an irregularis, and a passionate, ahnost 
feverish excitement, which do not announce a long or 
sure duration. 

I am no longer comparing the Anglo-Americans with 
foreign nations ; but I am contrasting them with each 
other, and endeavoring to discover why they are so va- 
like. The arguments which are derived from the nature 
of the country and the diiFerence of legislation are here 
all set aside. Recourse must be had to some other caase ; 
and what other cause can there be, except the manners of 
the people ? 

It is in the Eastern States that the Anglo-Americans 
have been longest accustomed to the government of de- 
mocracy, and have adopted the habits and conceived the 
opinions most favorable to its maintenance. DeiQocracy 
.has gradually penetrated into their customs, their opinions, 
and their forms of social intercourse ; it is to be found in 
all the details of doily life, as well Bs in the laws. In the 
.Extern States, tlie book instruction and practical edncation 
,«f the people have been most perfected, and religi&lt;m faas 



CAnSES WHICH TEND TO UAUTTAIN DEMOCBACT. 41S 

been most thoroughly anialgamated with liberty. Now, 
these habits, opinions, customs, and eonrictions are pre- 
cbely what I have denominatâd mannerê. 

In the Western States, on the contrary, a portion of the 
same advantages are still wanting. Many of the Ameri- 
cans of the West were bom in the woods, and they mix 
the ideas and customs of savage life with the civilization 
of their others. Their passions are more intense, their 
religious morality less authoritative, and tJieir convictions 
less firm. The inhabitants exercise no sort of control over 
their fellows, for they are scarcely acquainted with each 
other. The nations of the West display, to a certain 
extent, the inexperience and the rude habits of a people 
in their infancy ; for, although they are composed of old 
elements, tlieir assemblage is of recent date. 

The manners of the Americans of the United States are, 
•hen, the peculiar cause which renders that people the only 
one of the American nations that is able to support a dem- 
ocratic government ; and it is the inSuence of mannera 
which produces the different degrees of order and pros- 
perity that may be distinguished in the several Anglo- 
American democracies. Thus the effect which the geo- 
grapliical position of a country may have upon the duration 
of democratic institutions is exaggerated in Europe. Too 
much importance is attributed to legislation, too little to 
manners. These three great causes serve, no donbt, to 
regulate and direct the American democracy ; but if they 
were to be classed in their proper order, I should say that 
physical circumstances are less efficient than the laws, and 
the laws infinitely less so than the manners of the people. 
I am convinced that the most advantageous situation and 
the best possible laws cannot miuntain a constitution in 
spite of the manners of a country ; whilst the latter may 
tarn to some advantage the most unfavorable positions and 
the worst laws. The importance of mannera i&amp; &amp; c«i&amp;3&amp;!a^ 



414 DEIIOCBACT IS AMKRICA. 

truth to which study and experience încoisnntlj direct oat 
attention. It may be regai-dt-Hl as a central point in Ùia 
range of observation, and the common tenninatjon of all 
my inquiries. So seriously do I insist upon this head, tliat, 
if I liave hitherto failed in making the reader feel tlie im- 
portant influence of the practical experience, the habits, 
the opinions, in short, of the manners of tJie Americans, 
upon the mnintenance of Uieir inaiitutions, I hare failed in 
the priiiciiial object of my work. 



WHETHEB LAW3 AND UANKE)t3 AHB SCFPlCtEST TO HAHt- 
TAIN DEMOCRATIC INHT1TUT10Î)3 IN OTUER COtTNTBIBS 

BESIDES AMESICA, 

The Anglo-Amcriams, if transpoitcd iulo Etaiope, would ba obliged to 
modify their Laws. — Diatinction to be made boCwecn Democratic Li- 
Mitutions and American loatitutioTis. — Deioocralic Lawi nm; be con- 
ceived tiGltcr th&amp;n, or bI laut different from, those which the Americu 
Democracy \ua adopted. — The Extunple of America only proves thtt 
it ii possible, by the Aid of Manners and LogùIatioD, to icgnlate De- 
mocracy. 

I HAVE asserted that the success of democratic instîto- 
tions in the United States is more attributable to the laws 
themselves, and the manners of the people, than to the 
nature of the country. But does it follow that the same 
causes would of themselves produce the same results, if 
they were put in operation elsewhere ; and if the country 
is no adequate substitute for laws and manners, can laws 
and manners in their turn take the place of a country ? It 
will readily he understood that the elements of a reply to 
this question are wanting: other inhabitants are to be 
found in the New World besides the Anglo-Americana, 
and, as these are affected by the same physical circmnstan* 
ces as the latter, they may fairly be compared with them. 



CAUSES WHICH TEND TO MAINTAIN DEMOCRACY. 415 

But there are no nations out of America which have 
adopted the same laws and manners, though destitute of 
• the physical advantages pecuUar to the Anglo-Americans. 
No standard of comparison therefore exists, and we can 
only hazard an opinion. 

It appears to me, in the first place, that a careful cUstinc- 
don must be made between the institutions of the United 
States and democratic institutions in general. When I 
reflect upon the state of Europe, its mighty nations, its 
populous cities, its formidable armies, and the complex 
nature of its pohtics, I cannot suppose that even the Anglo- 
Americans, if they were transported to our hemisphere, 
with their ideas, their religion, and their manners, could 
exist without considerably altering their laws. But a 
democratic nation may be imagined, organized differentiy 
from the American people. Is it then impossible to con- 
ceive a government really established upon the will of the 
majority, but in which the majority, repressing its natural 
instinct of equality, should consent, with a view to the order 
and the stability of tiie state, to invest a femily or an indi- 
vidual with all the attributes of executive power ? Might 
not a democratic society be imagined, in which the forces 
of the nation would be more centralized than they are in 
the United States ; where the people would exercise a less 
direct and less irresistible influence upon public affairs, and 
yet every citizen, invested with certain rights, would par- 
ticipate, within his sphere, in the conduct of the govern- 
ment? What I have seen amongst the Anglo-American» 
induces me to believe that democratic institutions of this, 
kind, prudently introduced into society, so as gradually to 
mix with the habits, and to be interfused with the opin- 
ions of the people, might exist in other countries beside» 
America. If the laws of the United States were the only 
imaginable democratic laws, or the most perfect which it. 
is possible to conceive, I should admit that their succeaa 



DElincBAO' D{ AMERICA. 



by aatum^ 



416 



in America affords no proof of the iiuo«&gt;»i of der 
institutions in general, in a coantry less tkvored by c 
But as the laws of America appear to mo to be defèctm 
in several respects, and as I can readily imagine othen, 
the pecnliar advantages of that country do not prove to 
me that democratic institationa cannot succeed in a i 
tion less favored by circumstuicea, if ruled by bctttf 4 
laws. 

If human nature were different in America from vht 
it is elsewhere, or if the social condition of the America 
created habite and opinions amongst thorn different frasf 
those which originate in the same social condition in tfaft 1 
Old World, the American democracies would afford no \ 
means of predicting what may occur in other democracies. 
If the Americans displayed the same propensities as all 
otlier democratic nations, and if their legislators liad relied 
apon the nature of the country and the fevor of circnin- 
stances to restrain those propensities within due limits, the 
prosperity of the United States, being attributable to purely 
physical causes, would afford no encouragement to a peo- 
ple inclined to imitate their example, without sharing their 
natural advantages. But neither of these suppositions in 
borne out by facts. 

In America, the same passions are to be met witli as 
in Europe, — some originating in human nature, others in 
the democratic condition of society. Tims, in the United 
States, I found that restlessness of heart which is natnral 
to men when all ranks are nearly equal, and the chances 
of elevation are the same to all. I found there the demo- 
cratic feeling of envy expressed under a thousand difièrent 
forms. I remarked that the people there frequently di^ 
played, in the conduct of affairs, a mixture of ignorance 
and presumption ; and I inferred that, in America, men 
are liable to the same Ëdlings tnd exposed to the saine 
evils as amongst oureelves. But, upon examining the state ' 



CAUSES WBîCa TEND TO UAIKTAIH DEHOCRACT. 417 

of society more attentively, I speedily discovered tLat the 
Americans had made great and euccessfîd efforts to coun- 
teract these imperfections of human nature, and to correct 
the natural defects of democracy. Their divers municipal 
laws appeared to me so many means of restraining tlie rest- 
less ambition of the citizeus within a narrow sphere, and 
of turning those same passions which might have worked 
havoc in the state, to the good of the township or the 
parish. The American legislators seem to have sncceeded 
to some extent in opposing the idea of right to the feeling 
of envy ; the permanence of religions morality to the con- 
tinual shifting of politics ; the experience of the people to 
their theoretical ignorance ; and their practical knowledge 
of business to the impatience of their desires. 

The Americans, then, have not relied upon the nature 
of their country to counterpoise those dangers which origi- 
nate in their Constitution and their political laws. To 
evils which are common to all democratic nations, they 
have applied remedies which none but themselves had ever 
thought of; and, although they were the first to make the 
experiment, they have succeeded in it. The manners and 
laws of the Americana are not the only ones which may 
suit a democratic people ; but the Americans have shown 
that it would be wrong to despair of regulating democracy 
by the aid of manners and laws. If other nations should 
borrow this general and pregnant idea from the Ameri- 
cans, without, however, intending to imitate them in the 
peculiar application which they have made of it ; if they 
should attempt to fit themselves for that social condition 
which it seems to be the will of Providence to impose 
upon the generations of this age, and so to escape from 
the despotism or the anarchy which threatens them,-*- 
what reason is there to suppose that their efforts would 
not be crowned with success? The organization and the 
establishment of democracy in Christendom is the greta^ 




DEUOC&amp;ACT m AUSmCA. 



political problem of our times. The Americans, onqne»- 
tioimbly, have not resolved this problem, but tlicy f 
nsediil date to those who undertake to resolve ÎL 



""1 



It may readily be disoorered with what intention I 
untlcrtook the foregwng inquiries. The question here dis- 
cusswl is interesting not onlr to the United States, but to 
the whole world ; it concerns, not a nation only, but all 
mankind. If those nations whose social condition is demo- 
cratic could remain free only while tliey inhabit nncaltii-ated 
regions, we must despair of the future destiny of the human 
race ; for democracy is rajiidty acijuiring a more extended 
Bway, and the wilds are gradually peopled witli men. If 
it were true that laws and mnnners are insufficient to main- 
tain democratic institutions, what refiige would remain open 
to the nations, except the despotism of one man ? I am 
aware that there are many worthy persons at the present 
time who are not alarmed at this alternative, and who are 
BO tired of liberty as to be glad of repose far from its 
storms. But these persons are ill acquainted with the 
haven towards which they are bound. Preoccupied hv 
their remembrances, they judge of absolute power by what 
it has been, and not by what it might become in our times. 

If absolute power were re-established amongst the demo- 
cratic nations of Europe, I am persuaded that it would as- 
sume a new form, and appear under features unknown to 
our fathers. There was a time in Europe when the laws 
and the consent of the people had investml princes with 
ahnost unlimited authority, but they scarcely ever availed 
themselves of it. I do not speak of tlie prerogatives of 
the nobility, of the authority of high courts of justice, of 



CAUSES WHICH TEND TO MAINTAIN DEU0C6ACT. 419 

corporations and their chartered rights, or of provincial 
privilege's, which served to break tlie blows of sovereign 
authority, and to keep up a spirit of resistance in the na- 
tion. Independently of these political institutions, — which, 
however opposed they might be to personal liberty, served 
to keep alive the love of freedom in the mind, and which 
may be esteemed useful in tliis respect, — the manners and 
opinions of tlie nation confined the royal authority within 
barriers which were not less powerful because less conspic- 
uous. Religion, the affections of the people, the benevo- 
lence of the prince, the sense of honor, family pride, 
provincial prejudices, custom, and public opinion limited 
the power of kings, and restrained their authority within 
an invisible circle. The constitution of nations was des- 
potic at that time, but their manners were free. Princes 
had tlie right, but they had neither the means nor the de- 
sire, of doing whatever they pleased. 

But what now remains of those barriers which formerly 
arrested tyranny ? Since religion has lost its empire over 
the souls of men, the most prominent boundary which 
divided gootl from evil is overthrown ; everj'thing seems 
doubtful and indeterminate in the moral world ; kings and 
nations are guided by chance, and none can say where are 
the naliu-al limits of despotism and the bounds of license. 
Long i-evolutions have forever destroyed the respect which 
surrounded the rulers of the state ; and, since they have 
been relieved from the burden of public esteem, jnincea 
may liciiceforward surrender themselves without fear to 
the intoxication of arbitrary power. 

When kings find that the hearts of their subjects are 
turned towards them, they are clement, because they are 
conscious of their strength ; and they are chary of the 
affection of their people, because tlie affection of their 
people is the bulwark of the throne. A mutual inter* 
change of good-will then takes place betwecw iW -^irt&amp;SA 



^&gt; DEMOCRACY IN AIIKRICA. 

wkI iIi# people, which n^aemblcs the gmdous interconrM 
U" liotuwUc life. The Bubjects may murmur at the sover- 
fi};ii'K Jecrec, but they are griâTed to displease him ; and 
t)u&gt; sovereign cliastises his subjects with the light hand of 
parental aifection. 

Itut when once the spell of royalty is broken in the 
tumult of revolntiou, — when successive monarchs have 
i-rossi'd the throne, so as alternately to display to the peo- 
ple the weakness of tlieir right, and the harahneas of thrir 
power, — the sovereign is no longer regarded by any as the 
father of the state, and he is feared by all as its innstur. IF 
he is weak, he is despised ; if lie is strong, be is defeated. 
He is himself full of animosity and alarm ! he finds Uwt 
he is a stranger in his own country, and he treats his sub- 
jects like conquered enemies. 

When the provinces and the towns formed so many dit 
ferent nations in the midst of their common country, each 
of them had a will of its own, which was opposed to die 
general spirit of subjection ; hut, now that all the parts of 
the same empire, after having lost their immtmities, thdr 
customs, their prejudices, their traditions, and even th^ 
names, have become accustomed to obey the same laws, it 
is not more difficult to oppress them all together than it 
was formerly to oppress one of them separately, 

Whilst the nobles enjoyed their power, and indeed long 
after that power was lost, the honor of aristocracy con- 
ferred an extraordinary degree of force upon their personal 
Opposition. Men could then be fonnd who, notwitlistand- 
ing their weakness, still entertained a high opinion of theàr 
personal value, and dared to cope single-handed with the 
public authority. But at the present day, when all ranks 
are more and more confounded, — when the individual dis- 
appears irr the throng, and is easily lost in the midst of 
a common obscurity, when the honor of monarchy has 
almost lost its power, without being succeeded by vtrtoe, 



CAUSES WHICH TEHD TO MAINTAIN DEMOCBACY. 421 

and when nothing can enable man to rise above himself, — 
who shall say at what point the exigencies of power and 
the servility of weakness will stop ? 

As long as family feeling was kept alive, the antagonist 
of oppression was never alone ; he looked about him, and 
found his clients, his hereditary Mends, and Ma kinsfolk. 
If tliis support was wanting, he felt himself sustained l^ 
his ancestors, and animatfjd by his posterity. But when 
patrimonial estates are divided, and when a few years suf- 
fice to confound the distinctions of race, where can familv 
feeling bo found ? What force can there be in the customs 
of a country which has changed, and is still perpetually 
changing, its aspect, — in which every act of tyranny al- 
ready has a precedent, and every crime an example, — in 
wldch tliere is nothing so old that its antiquity can save it 
ùora destruction, and notliing bo unparalleled that its nov- 
elty can prevent it from being done? What resistance 
can be offered by manners of so pliant a make that they 
have already often yielded ? What strength can even 
pubhc opinion have retained, when no twenty persons are 
connected by a common tie, — when not a man, nor a 
femily, nor r;hartered corporation, nor class, nor free insti- 
tution, has the power of representing or exerting that opin- 
ion, — and when every citizen, being equally weak, equally 
poor, and equally isolated, has only his personal impotence 
to oppo;e to the organized force of tlie government? 

The annals of France furnish nothing analogous to the 
condition in which that country might then be thrown. 
But it may more aptly be assimilated to the times of old, 
and to tliose hideous eras of Roman oppression, when the 
manners of the people were corrupted, their traditions 
obliterated, their habits destroyed, their opinions shaken, 
and freedom, expelled from the laws, could find no refugs 
in the land ; when nothing protected tlie citizens, and the 
àtizens no longer protected themselves ; when hnmark 



432 DEuocRAcr is auëricà. 

nature was the sport of man, and princes wearied oat tJio 
clemency of Heaven before they exluiusted the patience 
of their Biibjects. Those who hope to revive the mort- 
fti^hy of Henry IV. or of Louis XIV. appear to me to 
be afflicted with mental blindness ; and when I consider 
the present condition of several European nations, — s 
condition to which all the others tend, — I am led to be- 
lieve that they will soon be left with no other alternative 
than democratic liberty or tlie tvranny of the Ctesars. 

Is not this deserving of consideration ? If men must 
really come to tliis point, that they are to be entirely 
emancipated or entirely enslaved, — all their rights to be 
made equal, or all to be taken away from them ; if the 
rulers of society were compelled cither gradually to raise 
the crowd to their own level, or to alhiw all the citizens 
to fall below that of humanity, — would not the doubts 
of many be resolved, the consciences of many be con- 
firmed, and the community prepared to make great sao 
ritices with litde difSculty ? In that case, tlie gradual 
growth of democratic manners and institutions should be 
regarded, not as the best, but as the only means of pre- 
serving freedom ; and, without liking the government of 
democracy, it might be adopted as the most applicable, 
and the fairest remedy for the present ills of society. 

It is difficult to make the people participate in the gov- 
ernment ; but it is still more difficult to supply them with 
experience, and to inspire them with the feelings which 
they need in order to govern well. I grant that the 
wishes of the democracy are capricious, its instruments 
rude, its laws imperfect. But, if it were true that soon 
no just mediiun would exist between the rule of democ- 
racy and the dominion of a single man, should we not 
rather incline towards the former, than submit voluntarily 
to the latter ? And if complete equally be our fete, is 
it not better to be levelled by free institutions than by s 



CAUSES WmCH TEHD TO MAINTAIN DEMOCBACT. 428 

Those who, RÛer having read this book, should imagine 
that my intention in writing it was to propose the laws 
and manners of the Anglo- Am encans for the imitation of 
all democratic communides, would make a great mistake ; 
they most have paid more attention to the form than to 
the substance of my thought.' My aim has been to show, 
by the example of America, that laws, and especially man- 
ners, may allow a democratic people to remain &amp;ee. Bnt 
I am veiy far from thinking that we ought to follow the 
example of the American democracy, and copy the means 
which it has employed to attain this end ; for I am well 
aware of the influence which the nature of a country and 
its political antecedents exercise upon its political consti- 
tution ; and I should regard it as a great misfortune for 
mankind if liberty were to exist all over the world under 
the same features. 

But I am of opinion that, if we do not succeed in gradu- 
ally introducing democratic institutions into France ; if we 
despair of imparting to all the citizens those ideas and sen- 
timents which first prepare tiiem for freedom, and after- 
wards allow them to enjoy it, — there will be no indepen- 
dence at all, either for the middling classes or the nobility, 
for the poor or for the rich, but an equal tyranny over 
all ; and I foresee that, if the peaceable dominion of the 
majority be not founded amongst us in time, we shall 
sooner or later fall under the unlimited authority of a 
single man. 



DEMOCKACY DJ AMEEIC4. 



CHAPTER XVII 



THE PRESENT AND PBOBABLB FUTUKE CONDITION OF 
THREE RACES Wmca INHABIT THE TEKRITOKÏ OF ' 
UNITED STATES. """^ 



THE principal task which I had imposed upon myself 
is now performed : I have shown, as farns I was able, 
tlio laws and the manners of the American democracy. 
Here I might stop ; but the reader would perhaps feel that 
I had not satisfied his expectations. 

An absolute uid immense democracy is not all that we 
find in America ; the inhabitants of the New World may 
be considered from more than one point of view. In the 
course of this work, my subject has often led me to speak 
of the Indians and the Negroes ; but I have never had time 
to stop in order to show what place these two races occupy 
in the midst of the democratic people whom I was engaged 
in describing. I have shown in what spirit and according 
to what laws the Anglo-American Union was fonned ; hat 
I could give only a hurried and imperfect glance at the 
dangers which menace that confederation, and could not 
fiimish a detailed account of its chances of duration in- 
dependently of its laws and manners. When speaking 
of the united repubhcs, I hazarded no conjecture» upon 
the permanence of republican forma in the New World ; 
and when making frequent allusion to the commercial 
activity which reigns in the Union, I was unable to in- 
quire into the future of the Americans as a commercial 
people. 



THE THBEE KAGES IH THE UNITED STATES. 426 

These topics are coUaterallj^fisflhected with my suLject 
without forming a part of J^^they are American, without 
being democratic ; and t^'portray democracy has been my 
principal aim. It&gt;&lt;fas therefore necessary to postpone 
these questions^mich I now take up m the proper termi- 
nation of id^*ork. 

rerritory now occupied or claimed by the American 
1 spreads from tlie shores of the Atlantic to. those of 

! Pacific Ocean. On the east and west, its limits are 
those of the continent itself. On the south, it advances 
nearly to the Tropics, and it extends upward to tlie icy 
r^ons of the North. 

The human beings who are scattered over tliis space do 
not form, as in Europe, so many branches of the same 
stock. Three races, naturally distinct, and, I njight almost 
say, hostile to each other, are discoverable amongst them at 
the first glance. Almost insurmountable barriers had been 
raised between them by education and law, as well as by 
their origin and outward characteristics ; but fortune haa 
brought them together on the same soil, where, although 
they are mixed, they do not amalgamate, and each race 
fulfib its destiny apart. 

Amongst tliese widely differing families of men, the first 
which attracts attention — the superior in intelligence, in 
power, and in enjojrment — is the White, or European, the 
MAN pre-eminently so called ; below him appear the Negro 
and the Indian. These two unhappy races have notliing 
in common, neither birth, nor features, nor language, nor 
habits. Their only resemblance lies in their misfortunes. 
Both of them occupy an equally inferior position in the 
country they inhabit ; both suffer from tyranny ; and if 
theh: wrongs are not the same, they originate from the 
same authors. 

If we reasoned from what passes in the world, we should 



426 DEUUCRACT IS AUEBICA. 

kIiiki^I say that the Kuropean is to the other races of man 
kinJ what mnn himself 13 to the luwer niiiinals : he inakea 
them subaemtnt to his use, and when he cannot subdue, 
he di^troys them. Oppression has, at one stroke, deprived 
the descendants of the Africans of almost all the priviegea 
of huinauily. The Negro of the United States has lost 
even the reraemhrance of his country ; the liinguago which 
his forefathers spoke is never heard orouiul liîm ; lie ab- 
jured their reUgion and forgot their customs when be 
ceased to belong to Africa, without acquiring any claim 
to European privileges. But he remains balf-way between 
the two communities, isolated between two races ; sold by 
the one, repulsed by the other ; finding not a spot in the 
uniMTM' to fall by the name of couutr}', except the faint 
image ot a home which the shelter of Ms master's roof 
affords. 

The Negro has no family: woman is merely the tent- 
porary companion of his pleasures, and his children are on 
an equality with himself from the moment of their birth. 
Am I to call it a proof of God's mercy, or a visitation of 
his wrath, that man, in certain states, appears to be insen- 
sible to his extreme wretchedness, and almost obtains a 
depraved taste for the cause of his misfortunes ? The 
Negro, plunged in this abyss of evils, scarcely feels his 
own calamitous situation. Violence made him a slave, 
and the liabit of servitude gives him the thoughts and 
desires of a slave ; he admires his tyrants more than he 
hates tlicm, and finds his joy and his pride in the servile 
imitation of those who oppress him. His understanding 
is degraded to the level of his soul, 

Tlie Negro enters upon slavery as soon as he is bom ; 
nay, he may have been purchased in the womb, and have 
begun his slavery before he began his existence. Equally 
devoid of wants and of enjoyment, and useless to himself, 
he leams, with his first notions of existence, that he is the 



THE THREE BACES IN THE UMITED STATES. 427 

property of another, who has an interest in preserving hia 
life, and that the care of it does not devolve upon himself; 
even the power of thought appears to him a useless gift 
of Providence, and he quietly enjoj's all the privileges of 
his debasement. 

If he becomes free, independence is often felt by him 
to be a heavier burden than slavery ; for, having learned, 
in tlie course of his life, to submit to ever)'thing except 
reason, he is too unacquainted with her dictates to obey 
them. A thousand new desires beset him, and he has not 
the knowledge and energy necessary to resist them : these 
are masters which it is necessary to contend with, and he 
has leamt only to submit and obey. In short, he is sunk 
to such a depth of wretchedness, tha , while servitude bru- 
talizes, liberty destroys him. 

Oppression has been no less fatal to the Indian than 
to the Negro race, but its effects are different. Before 
the anival of white men in the New World, the inhab- 
itants of North America lived quietly in their woods, en- 
during the vicissitudes and practising the virtues and vices 
common to savage nations. The Europeans, having dis- 
persed the Indian tribes and driven them into the deserts, 
condemned them to a wandering life, fiill of inexpressible 
sufferings. 

Savage nations are only controlled by opinion and cus- 
tom. When the North American Indians had lost the 
sentiment of attachment to their country ; when their femi- 
lies were dispersed, their traditions obscured, and the chain; 
of their recollections broken ; when all their habits were- 
changed, and their wants increased beyond measure, — ■ 
European tyranny rendered them more disorderly and 
leas civilized tlian they were before. The moral and 
physical condition of these tribes continually grew worse, 
and they became more barbarous as they became more 
wretched. Nevertheless, the Europeans have not ViwiGk 



428 OEHOCBACT m AMtJaCA. 

able to change tlie character of the Indians ; and, though 
they huve liad powor to destroy, they have never been 
able to subdue and civilize them. 

The lot of the Negro û placed on the extreme limit 
of senitiido, wliile that of tjie Indian lies on the ntter- 
most verge of liberty ; and slavery docs not produce more 
fatal effects upon the. first, than independence npon the 
second. The Nefrro has lost all property in his own 
pi-rson, and he cannot dispose of his exiatonce without 
commiiting a sort of fraud. But the saviige is his own 
master as soon as he is able to act ; parental authority 
is scarcely known to him ; he has never lient his will to 
tlutt of any of his kind, nor learned the difference between 
voluntary obeilience and a sliamoful subjection ; and the 
very name of law is unknown to him. To be free, with 
him, signifies to escape from all the shackles of society. 
As he delights in this barbarous independence, and would 
rather perish than sacrifice the least part of it, civilization 
has little hold over him. 

The Negro mokes a thousand fruitless efforts to insinuate 
himself amongst men who repulse him ; he conforms to the 
tastes of his oppressors, adopts their opinions, and hopes 1^ 
imitating them to form a part of their community. Hav- 
ing been told from infancy that his race is naturally inferior 
to that of the whites, he assents to the proposition, and is 
ashamed of his own nature. In each of liis features he 
discovers a trace of slavery, and, if it were in his power, 
he would willingly rid himself of everything that makes 
him what he is. 

The Indian, on the contrary, has his imagination inflated 
with the pretended nobility of his ori^n, and lives and dies 
in the midst of these dreams of pride. Far from desiring 
to conform his habits to ours, he loves his savage Mte as the 
distinguishing mark of his race, and repels every advance 
to civilization, less, perhaps, from hatred of it, thtai (ccaa 



THE TIIBEE RACES IK THE UNITED STATES. 429 

ft dread of resembling the Europeans.* While he lias 
nothing to oppose to our perfection in the arts hut the 
resources of the desert, to our tactics nothing but undisci- 
plined courage, — whilst our well-digested plans are met 
only by the spontaneous instincts of savage life, — who 
can wonder if he fails in this unequal contest ? 

The Negro, who earnestly desires to mingle his race 
with that of the European, cannot do so ; while the In- 
dian, who might succeed to a certain extent, disdains to 
make the attempt. The servility of the one dooms him 
to slavery, the pride of the other to death. 

I remember that, while I was travelling through the 
forests which still cover the State of Alabama, I arrived 

' The native of North America reiaiiu his opinions and the most inii^ 
nificant of hia luibits with a degree of tenadtj which has no parallel in 
hietorj. For more than two hundred yean, the wandering tribci of Ifonh 
AiDorica hftTO had daily intercoom with the whites, and thoy bun nerer 
derived ii-om them a outom or an idea. Tet the Enropcana have exerdaed 
H powerful influcnrc over the MTogcs : they have made them more licen- 
tioua, but not more European. In the sanuner of 1B31, I happened to b« 
beyond Lake Miehigan, at a place called Green-Bay. which serves ai the 
extreme frontier between the United Slateg and the Indians of the NoRh- 
weat. Hero I became ocqaainled with an Antcricen officer, M^r H., who, 
•(1er talking lo me at length aboat (he inflexibility of the Indian cliaracter, 
related the following GicC: "I fonneriy knew a young Indian," said b«, 
" who had been edncated at a college in New Engliuid, wbei« he had greatly 
diatinguighed hirnself, and had acquired the external appearance of a dvil- 
izcd man. When the war broke oat between ontwlvcs and the English in 
1812, I saw this young man i^ain; he was seiriiig in oar army, at the head 
of the waiiiocB of his tril&gt;e i for the Indians were admitted wnongst the 
ranks of the Americans, on condition only that they wonid abstain from 
their horrible cnstom of scalping their victims. On the evening of the battle 
of • • •, C. came, and sat himself down bj the fire of oar bivouac. I 
asked him wliat had been his fbrtane that day ; he related his exploits ; and 
growing warm and animated by the recollection of them, he concluded by 
suddenly opening the breast of his coat, saying, ■ Ton most not betray 
me: — see here I ' And I aclnsllj beheld," said the tmor, "between hi( 
body and bis shirt, the skin and hair of an English head, still dripping Willi 
blood." 



430 DEMOCRACY IK AHERIOA. 

one day at tie log-liouso of a pioneer. I did not wish 1 
penetrate into tlie dwelling of the American, but i 
to wst myaelf for a wlille on the margin of a spring, wliicH 
wa» not far oif, in the woods. \Vhil« I w-as in this place, 
(which was in the neighborhood of tJio Creek territoiy.) 
an Itidiun woman appeared, followed by a Negress, and 
holding by the hand a Utile white girl of five or six years 
old, whom I took to l&gt;e the daughter of the pioneer. A 
sort of Kirbarons luxury set off tlie costume of tlio Indian ; 
rings of metjil were Iinnging from her nostrils and ears ; 
her hair, which was adorned with glass beads, fell loosely 
upon her shoulders ; and I saw that she was not manied, 
for she still wore that necklace of shells wliich the bride 
alw;iys iK']His;i.^ on the nuptial cmioh. The Negi-ess was 
cluii ill lit^uaiiii European garmenta. All tliroe came and 
seated thcmsclvee upon the banks of the fountain ; and the 
young Indian, taking the child in her arms, lavished upon 
her such fond caresses as mothers give ; while the Negress 
endeavored, by various little artifices, to attract the atten- 
tion of the young Creole. The child displayed in her 
slightest gestures a consciousness of superiority which 
forme&lt;l a strange contrast with her infantine weakness; 
as if she received the attentions of her companions with 
a sort of condescension. The Negress was seated on the 
ground before her mistress, watching her smallest desires, 
and apparently dirided between an almost maternal affec- 
tion for the child and servile feai' ; whilst the savage dis- 
played, in the midst of her tenderness, an air of freedom 
and pride which was almost ferocious, I had approached 
the group, and was contemplating them in silence ; but 
my curiosity was probably displeasing to the Indian wo- 
man, for she suddenly rose, pushed the cliild roughly 
from her, and, giving me an angry look, plunged into the 
thicket. 

I bad often chanced to see individuals together in tba 



PRESENT AKS FUTUBE CONDITION OF THE INDIANS. 4SI 

Baine place, who belonged to the three races which people 
North America. I had perceived from many diflêreDt 
tnùts the preponderance of the whites. But in the pic- 
ture which I have just been describing, there was some- 
thing peculiarly touching ; a bond of affection here united 
the oppressors with the oppressed, and the effort of Nature 
to bring them together rendered still more striking the 
immense -distance placed between them by prejudiJe s 
the laws. 



THE PRESENT AND PROBABLE FUTDBB CONDITION Of THB 
INDIAN TRIBES WHICH INHABIT THE T^^nORY POS- 
SESSED BY THE UNION. 

Gndunl Dlsappciiranca of the N&amp;tive Tribes. — Maoncr in nhich it takct 
place — MtscricB accampanjicg the forced Mij^tioiis of the Inditutt. — 
The Sava^ica of North America had only two Wajra of camping Dcsunc- 
tion. Wot or Civilii^on. — They are no longer able to moke Wor. — 
Reasons wliy they refused to become Civilized when ic was in their 
Power, and why ihcy conoot become so now that Ihcj desire it. — In- 
nanco of the Creeks and ChorokEca. — Policy of iho particnlar State* 
towards thcw Indiana. — Policy of the Fédéral Government. 

None of the Indian tribes which formerly inhabited the 
territory of New England — tJie Narragansctts, the Mo- 
hicans, tlie Pequods — have any existence but in the rec- 
■ ollection of man. The Lenapes, who received William 
Penn, a hundred and fifty years ago, upon the banks of 
the Delaware, have disappeared ; and I myself met with 
the last of the Iroquois, who were begging alms. Tlie 
nations I have mentioned formerly covered the country 
to the sea-coast ; but a traveller at the present day must 
penetrate more than a hundred leagues into the interior 
of the continent to find an Indian. Not only have these 
wild tribes receded, but they are destroyed ;• and as they 
■ In the thirteen original States, then an only 6,in&amp; liïUa:ia -wsnuflyxtHf 




iheir place. There is no instance upon rtt-uni of' ko pro 
digious a growth or so rapid n destruction : the manner 
in which tliu latter cliango takes place is not difficult to 
'descrilw. 

When the Indtanti were tlie sole inhaliitants of the wîtfb 
whence they ha\'c since been oxpelled, their wants were 
fiîw, Thdr arm» were of their own maiiufiicture, theûr 
cmly drink was the water of the brook, and their clothes 
consisted of the skins of animals, whosu flesh (Vimished 
til em with food. 

The EuropiMLTis Introduced amongst the savages of North 
America fire-arms, ardent spirits, and iron: they tsnght 
them to exchange for manufuctnrod stuffs the rough gar- 
ments which had jinn-iously satisfied their untutored sim- 
plicity, Ha™g acquired new tastes, without the arts 
by which they could be gratified, the Indians were obliged 
to have recourse to the workmanship of the whites ; but 
in return for their productions, tlie savage had nothing to 
offer except the rich fura which still abounded in his woods. 
Hence the chase became necessary, not merejy to provide 
for his subsistence, but to satisfy the frivolous desires of 
Europeans. He no longer hunted merely to obtain food, 
but to procure the only objects of barter which he could 
offer." Whilst the wants of the natives were thus increas- 
ing, their resources continued to diminish. 

• Moaara. Clnrke and Cb*b, in thoit roport to Congresi, the 4th of Feb- 
ruoTf, 1829. p. 23, remarked : " The diDO when llio Indiana gencnllj coiild 
■upply ihcmBclvca with food and clothing, without anj of the articles of dr- 
ilizod lire, has long since passed awa;. The more remote tribes, beyond tba 
Miasissippi, who lire whcio immense herds of btiffalo are yet to be found, 
and who follow those animids in their periodical migimtions, could mora 
eaailj than anj others rccar to the habits of ihcir anccslora, and lire witb- 
ont the wliilo man or any of hia manofaclarea. But the bolfalo û conMant^ 
needing. The smaller animals — the bear, the deer, (he bcmTcr, the otier, 
dM musk-rat, etc. — principally minister to the comfort and nqipert of iIn 



FBESEKT AND FUTUBE CONDITION OF THE INDIANS. 43S 

From the rooment when a European settlement û 
formed in the neighborhood of the territory occupied by 
the ladians, the beasts of chase take the alarm.* Thou- 
sands of savages, wandering in the forests, and destitute 
of any fixed dwelling, did not disturb them ; but as soon 
as tlie continuous sounds of European labor are heard in 
their neighborhood, they begin to flee away, and retire to 
the West, where their instinct teaches them that they will 
still find deserts of immeasurable extent. " The buf&amp;lo 
b constantly receding," say Messrs. Clarke and Cass in 
their Report of the year 1829 ; " a few years since they 
approached the base of the Alleghany ; and a fijw years 
hence they may even be rare upon the immense plains 
which extend to the base of the Rocky Mountains." I 
have been assured tliat this effect of the approach of the 
whites is often &amp;àt at two hundred leagues' distance from 
their frontier. Their influence is thus exerted over tribea 
whose name is unknown to them ; and who suffer tlie evils 

Indiuu ; and Ihcsc nnnol be UtkeQ without gntu, ammnnitioii, imil trap*. 
Among the Nonhwcgtcm Indiaiu, particnUrlj. the labor of lapplyiag 
a bmil; with food Ù cxceuivo. Dsj- after daj is spent by tho huotor with- 
ont Bucoc«8, and during this intciral his fiiinil3r mnst subsist upon bsrk or 
roots, or perish. Wont and miser? ara «rooad them and among them. 
Manj die cverj wintei from actoal iCarration." 

Tho Indians will not Iito as Europeans live; and ret they can neither 
subsist witlioat them, nor cxacllj after the fashion of (heir fathers. This ia 
demonstnitcd b^ a fact which I likewise give upon oflicial anlhorit;. Some 
Indians of a tribe on the banks of Lake Superior hod killed a European ; 
the American goTcmment interdicted all traffic with the tribe to which the 
goilij parties belong, until thejr were deliTcred up to justice. This mea«- 
nre had the desired dfect. 

• "Five years ago," says Tolney in his ToUeou tie» Élatt-Unia, p. 370, 
"in going from Viuccnncs to Kaskaskia, a territory which now forms part 
of the State of Ulinois, but which at the time I mention was completely 
wild (1797), yon could not cross a prairie without seeing herds of from 
four to five hundred bnl&amp;loce. There are now none remaining; thej swam 
across tlio Mississippi, to escape &amp;om the hunters, and more perticalarly fiom 
the bcUs of tho American eows." 

I» »» 



484 DEMOOBACT IN AMERICA. 

of nsurpatloii long before thej are acquainted with the 
authors of their distress.* 

Bold adventurers soon penetrate into the eonntiy the 
Indians have deserted, and when they have advanced about 
fifteen or twenty leagues from the extreme frontiers of the 
whites, they begin to build habitations for civilized beings 
in the midst of the wilderness. This is done without dif- 
ficulty, as the territoiy of a hunting nation is iU defined ; 
it is the common property of the tribe, and belongs to no 
one in particular, so that individual interests are not con- 
cerned in protecting any part of it. 

A. few European fiimilies, occupying points veiy remote 
ftx&gt;m each other, soon drive away tlie wild animals which 
remain between their places of abode. The Indians, who 
had previously lived in a sort of abimdance, then find it 
difficult to subsist, and still more difficult to procure the 
articles of barter wliich they stand in need of. To drive 
away their game has the same effect as to render sterile the 
fields of our agriculturists ; deprived of the means of sub- 
sistence, Uiey are reduced, like famished wolves, to prowl 
through the forsaken woods in quest of prey. Their in- 
stinctive love of country attaches them to the soil which 
gave them birth,f even afler it has ceased to yield anything 

* The truth of what I here advance may be easily proved by consulting 
the tabular statement of Indian tribes inhabiting the United States and their 
territories. (Legislative Documents, 20th Congress, No. 117, pp. 90-105.) 
It is there sho'Mii that the tribes in the centre of America arc rapidly dO' 
creasing, although the Europeans are still at a considerable distance from 
them. 

t " The Indians/' say Messrs. Clarke and Cass, in their Report to Con- 
gress, p. 15, "am attached to their country by the same feelings which bind 
us to ours ; and, besides, thero are certain superstitious notions connected 
with the alienation of what the Great Spirit gave to their ancestors, wliich 
operate strongly upon the tril)es who have made few or no cessions, but 
which are gradually weakened as our intercourse with them is extended. 
* We will not sell the spot which contains tlie bones of our fathers/ b almost 
always the first answer to a proposition for a sale." 



PRESENT AND FUTURE CONDITION OF THE INDIAN3. 435 

but misery and death. At length, they are compelled to 
acquiesce and depart: they follow the traces of the elk, 
the buffalo, and the beaver, and are guided by these wild 
animals in the choice of their future country. Properly 
speaking, therefore, it is not the Europeans who drive away 
the natives of America; it is famine; — a happy distinc- 
tion, whicli had escaped the casuists of former times, and 
for wliich we are indebted to modem discovery I 

It is impossible to conceive the frightful sufferings which 
attend these forced migrations. They are undertaken by a 
people already exhausted and reduced ; and the countries 
to which the new-comers betake themselves are inhabited 
by other tribes, which receive them with jealous hostility. 
Hunger is in the rear, war awaits them, and misery besets 
them on all sides. To escape from so many enemies, they 
separate, and each individual endeavors to procure secretly 
the means of supporting hia existence by isolating himself, 
hving in the immensity of the desert like an outcast in civ- 
ihzcd socie^. The social tie, which distress had long since 
weakened, is then dissolved ; they have no longer a coun- 
try, and soon they will not be a people ; their very families 
are obliterated ; their common name is forgotten ; their 
language perishes ; and all traces of their origin disappear. 
Tiieir nation has ceased to exist, except in the recollection 
of the antiquaries of America, and a few of the learned of 
Europe. 

I should he sorry to have my reader suppose that I am 
coloring the picture too highly : I saw with my own eyes 
many of the miseries which I have just described, and was 
the witness of sufferings which I have not the power to 
portray. 

At the end of the year 1831, whilst I was on the left 
bank of the Mississippi, at a place named by Eucopeans 
Memphis, there arrived a numerous band of Choctaws (or 
Chactas, as they are called by the French in Louisiana^ 






4SS DEUOCSACV IN AUEBIOA. 

These savages had left iheîr conntry, and vero «iiiea^ 
ing to gRiD tlio right bank of the Miw)$«ippi, where th^ 
bopt-tl to find an asylum which had been promised them 
by the American government. It was tlien the middle of 
winter, and the cold was imusutdly severe ; tiie snow hod 
frozen hard upon the grannd, and the river was drifting 
huge masses of ice. The Indians had their families n-ith 
tlicm ; and they brought in their train the wounded and 
tho sick, with ehiJdren nowlj bom, and old men upon tlie 
vi*r^ iif death. They possessed neither tents nor ivagona, 
but only tlieir arms and some provisions. I saw iJiem 
bark lo pass the mighty river, and never will that sol 
«[iftiHclu &amp;dc fi'om my remembrance. No cry, no 
WHH heard amongst the assembled crowd ; alî were silent. 
Tlieir calamities were of ancient date, and they knew them 
to be irremediable. The Indians had all stepped into the 
bark which was to carry them across, but their dc^ 
remained upon the bank. As soon as these animals per- 
ceived that their masters were finally leaving the Bhore, 
they set up a dismal bowl, and, plunging all together into 
the icy waters of the Mississippi, swam after the boat. 

The ejectment of the Indians often takes place at the 
present day in a regular, and, as it were, a legal manner. 
When the European population begins to approach the 
limit of the desert inliabtted by a savage tribe, tlie gov^ 
emment of the United States usually sends forwanl en- 
voys, who assemble the Indians in a large plain, and, 
having first eaten and drunk with them, address them 
thus : " What have you to do in the land of your 
fethers? Before long, you must dig up their bones in 
order to live. In what respect is the country you inhabit 
better than another? Are there no woods, marshes, or 
prairies, except where you dwell ? And can you live 
nowhere but under your own sun? Beyond Uiose moun- 
teina which you see at the horizon, beyond the lake which 



PRESENT AND rUTURK CONDITION OF THE INDIANS. 43T 

bounds youf territory on the west, there lie vast coun- 
tries where beasts of chase are yet found in great abun- 
dance ; sell us your lands, then, and go to live happily 
in those solitudes." After holding this language, they 
spread before the ejres cS the Indiana fire-arms, woollen 
garments, kegs of brandy, glass necklaces, bracelets of 
tinsel, ear-rings, and look ing^I asses.* If, when they have 
beheld all these riches, they still hesitate, it is insinuated 
that they cannot refuse the required consent, and that 
the government itself will not long have the power of 
protecting them in their rights. What are they tla do? 
Half convinced and half compelled, they go to inhabit 
new deserts, where the importunate whites will not let 
them remain ten years in peace. In this manner do the 
Americans obtain, at a very low price, whole provinces, 
which the richest sovereighs of Europe could not pur- 
chase.! 

* See, in the Legislative Doenmeots of CongnM (Doc. IIT), the nam- 
tivB of wliat takes place on then occaaiona. This carioiia ponage n (roiD 
the rormcrl; mentioned Report, made to Congreaa bj Measn. Clarke and 
Ca«a, in Kobrnar;, IS29. 

" The Indiana," aayi the Beport, "reach the trcaty-grouDd poor, and al- 
most naked. Large qnsotilioa of goods ore taken there by the traders, and 
are seen and examined by the Indiana. The women and children become 
impoTtDoate to have tfadr want! sopplicd, and their influence i» toon exertod 
to induce a Mle. Their improvidence ia habitual and Doconquerahle. The 
graciâcation of his immediate wonts and deairea is the ruling paasïon of an 
Indian. The c:cpcctatioii of fiilnre advantages «cidom pcoducce much effect. 
The expcrieaco of the post is lost, and the proepectt of the fnturo dieregaid- 
ed. It would be uticrlj hopeleet to demand a ceasion of land, unless the 
means were at hand of gralifyiug their immediate wants ; and when their 
condition and circumsiancea are Burly conaideied, it ought not to surprise us 
that thej are so anxious lo relieve themselves." 

t On the 19th of May, 1830, Mr. Edward Everett affinued before the 
Bouse of ItcprcscntBlivGS. that the Americana had already acquired by Ireah/, 
M the east and west of the Mississippi, 330.000,000 of acre». In 1808, the 
Osa^iea gave ap 48.000,000 acres for an anoual payment of l.OQQ Ai^Uaxv 

lu 1818, the Qiupan yielded Op S0,000,000wxcs Iln4,lMa^o^^Bn. '^IVkj 



'438 DEIfOCBACT IK JUIEBICA. 

These are great evils ; and it mnBt be added that tbej 
appear to me to be irremediable. I believe tbat tlw 
Indian nations of North America are doomed to perish; 
and that whenever the Europeans shall be established 
an the shores of the Pacific Ocean, that race of men will 
have ceased to exist.* The Indians had only the aita!» 
native of war or civilization ; in other worda, they must 
«ther destroy the Europeans or become their equals. 

At the first settlement of the colonies, they might have 
fout^d it possible, by uniting thùr forces, to deliver theaï- 
selves from the small bodies of strangers who landed on 
their continent.f They several times attempted to do it, 

reserved for tTiemselTcs a icrrilory of 1,000,000 «CTca for &amp; hnnling-gromid. 
A solemn onlh nas taken iLat it should bo respected : bat bcfon long it WM 
invailed like llio rest. 

Mr. Bell, ill Ilia " Report of the Committee on Indian Â&amp;în," Fvbnmj 
S4, 1330, bis these words : " To paj aa Indian tribe what their andent 
liuntinp-poands are worth to them after tlie game is fled or dcstroTcd, as t, 
mode of appropriftiing wild lands claimed bj Indians, lias been found mora 
ronTcnient, and rertninly it is mora sgrccable to the forms of jiutira, aa well 
as more roercifnl, than to assert the poasesBion of tlicm hj the sword. Thus 
tliu pnictiee of baviag lodiuD tiites is but tlie substitute which hamanitjr and 
Hxpedicncj have imposed, in place of tlie sivord, in irriring at tlie artnal 
enjoyment of property claimed by the right of discovery, and sanctioned by 
the natural superiority atlowi^l to the cisims of ciTJIized communitic* orer 
those of savage tribes. Up to the present time, so invariable has been th« 
opération of certain causes, first in diminishing iho value of forest lands to 
tiie Indians, and secondly, in dlsjiosing them to sell readily, that tbc plan ot 
buying their right of occupancy has never threatened to retard, in any pci^ 
wptililc degree, the prosperity of any of the Slates." (Lt^lative Docu- 
ments, 21st Congress, No. 327, p. 6). 

* This seems, indeed, to bo the ogiinion of almost all American states- 
men. "Judging of the future by the past," says Mr. Cass, "we cannot 
err in antitijiotiug a progressive diminution of tlieic numbers, and thai 
evenlual extinction, unless our border should become situionary, and tbe/ 
be removed beyond it, or unless gome radical change shoold toko place in 
tlie principles of our intercourse with them, which it is easier to hope hi 
than to expect." 
t Amongst othoi naiMVo ocUitctiua, fa&lt;s« iiaa ooa &gt;A ^a'^wc^ummsi^ 



PEESENT AND FUTURE CONDITION OF THE INDIANS. 439 

and were on the point of succeeding ; but the dispropor- 
tion of their resources at the present day, when compared 
with those of the whites, is too great to allow such an 
enterprise to be thought of. But from time to time among 
the Indians, men of sagacity and energy foresee the final 
destiny which awaits the native population, and exert 
themselves to unite all the tribes in common hostility to 
the Europeans ; but their efforts are unavailing. The 
tribes which are in the neighborhood of the whites are 
too much weakened to offer an effectual resistance ; whilst 
the others, giving way to that childish carelessness of the 
morrow which characterizes savage life, wait for the near 
approach of danger before they prepare to meet it : some 
are unable, others are unwilling, to act. 

It is easy to foresee that the Indians will never civilize 
themselves, or that it will be too late when they may be 
inclined to make the experiment. 

Civilization is the result of a long social process, which 
takes place in the same spot, and is handed down from one 
generation to another, each one profiting by the experience 
of the last. Of all nations, those submit to civilization 
with the most difficulty who habitually live by the chase. 
Pastoral tribes, indeed, often change their place of abode ; 
but they follow a regular order in their migrations, and 
often return to their old stations, whilst tlie dwelling of the 
hunter varies with that of the animals he pursues. 

Several attempts have been made to diffuse knowledge 
amongst the Indians, leaving unchecked their wandering 
propensities, by the Jesuits in Canada, and by the Puritan» 
in New England ; * but none of these endeavors have been 

and other confederate tribes, under Metacom, in 1675, against the colonists 
of New England ; the English were also engaged in war with them in "Vlr- 
ginia in 1G22. 

* See the historians of New England, the Histoire de la Nouvelle France, 
bj Charlevoix, and the work entitled Lettrée édifiantes. 



no I&gt;E110CR.\CY IN AMEKICA. 

crowned hj any Insting auccesi. Civiliiadon began in the 
cabin, but soon rulired to expire in the woods. The great 
iirrar of tbtae liigisluton of the Indians was tbeir not un- 
dcretaiiiling that, in order to succwd in cjvilizinj; a people, 
it u jintt iitxreasary to Ex them, which cannot bi- donu witb- 
out inducing them to cultivate tho soil ; the Indians ought 
in tlie firat place to have been acfusttimi-*! to agrii-ulturr. 
But not only arc they destitute of tliia indixiicnsaUc pre- 
liminary to civilization, — they would evon have givat dif- 
ficulty in acquiring it. Alcn who have once ulmndoned 
tlicmM'lviis U) the rustless and adventurous life of the 
hunti^r feel an inaurmouotablc disgust for thu constank ■ 
ttiui regular lalwr which tillage requires. We see thb I 
pruvi'd oven in our own societies ; but it is &amp;jr more 
visible among races whose partiality for tlie chase is a part 
of tiieir national character. 

Independently of this general difficulty, there is another, 
which applies peculiarly to tlie Indians. They consider 
lahor not mei-efy as an evil, but as a disgrace ; so tliat their 
pride contends against civilization as obstinately as th«r 
indolence.* 

There is no Indian so wretched as not to retain under 
bis hut of bark a lofty idea of his personal worth ; he con- 
siders the cares of industry as degrading occupations ; he 
compares the husbandman to the ox which traces the fiir- 
row ; and in each of our handicrafts, he can see only the 
labor of slaves. Not that he is devoid of admiration for 
the power and intellectual greatness of the whites ; but, 
although the result of our efforts surprises him, he con- 

• " In all iho iribea," sayi Tolney, in hii Tahleaa da Éiata-Unia, (p. 
423,) "tlicre Btill exists a g«iie»iion of old wamon, who cannot forbear, 
when thej lee Iheir coontiTiiien using tha hoe, &amp;om exdaiming agaioct Aa 
degradalian of ancient muincn, aod asserting that the aavagea o«« tbek 
dacline to llieee innovations ; adding, that they have only to ictnm to tbeil 
primitive habits, in order to recover tbeir power and glory." 



I 



PHESENT AND FUTURE COMHTION 07 THE INDIASS. 441 

temns the means by which we obtain it ; and while he 
acknowledges our ascendeacy, he still believes in his own 
superiority. War and hunting are the only purauits which 
appear to him worthy of a man.* The Indian, in the 
dreary solitudes of his woods, cherishes the same ideas; 
the same opinions, as the noble of the Middle Ages in his 
castle ; and he only needs to become a conqueror to com- 
plete the resemblance. Thus, however strange it may 
seem, it is in the forests of the New World, and not 
amongst the Europeans who people its coasts, that the 
ancient prejudices of Europe still exist. 

More than once, in the course of this work, I have 
endeavored to explain the prodigious influence which the 
social condition appears to exercise upon the laws and 
the manners of men ; and I beg to add a few words on 
the same subject. 

When I perceive the resemblance which exista between 
the political institutions of our ancestors, the Germans, 
and the wandering tribes of North America, — between 
the customs described by Tacitus, and those of which I 
■ have sometimes been a witness, — I cannot help thinking 
that the same cause has bronght abont the same results in 
both hemispheres ; and that, in the midst of the apparent 

■ The rollowidg d««ariptioD occnn in an official docoment: "Until ■ 
yonng man has bcca engaged «itb an eoemj, and has poribnncd aome acta 
of valor, he gains no comideration, bat u regarded nearly a» a woman. In 
their great iVBT-dBares, all the warriors in sncccssion itriko the post, aa it la 
called, and recoanl their exploits. On these occasions, their auditoi? con- 
aiEts or the kinAnen, Triends, and comrades of the nanslor. The profoDEid 
impression which his disooone produces on them is manifcated bj the silent 
attention it receives, and bj the lond shonts which liail its lermiaaciDn. The 
yooDg man who Snds himself at sneb a meeting without anything to re- 
cooni is very unhappy ; and inatances have lonictiine* occnrred of yoanf 
warriors, whose pasaiona had been thus inflamed, quiltiag the war-dance 
snddcaly, and going off olooe (o seek for trophies which they might ezhlbll- 
«nd adventoTEs which they might be allowed M relata." 
19* 



442 DEMOCBACT IN AMEHIOA. 

diversity of liuman atfdrs, certain primary &amp;cts may be 
di8covei"ed, from which all the others are derived. la 
what nc usually call the German institutions, then, I am 
inclined to perceive only horburiati hahiu, and the o[&gt;inioitâ 
of savages in what we style feudal principles. 

However strongly the vices and prejudices of the North 
American Indians may be opposed to their becoming agri- 
culliiml and cinlizcd, necessity sometimes drives them ta 
it. Seienil of the Southern tribes, considerably numerous, 
and amongst others the Cherokecs and the Creeks,* found 
themselves, as it were, surrounded by Europeans, who had 
landed on the shores of the Atlantic, and, either descend- 
ing the Ohio, or proceeding up the Mississippi, arrived 
simultaneously upon their borders. These tribes had not 
been diii'en from place to place-, like their Northern breth- 
ren ; but they had been gradually shut up within narrow 
limits, like game driven into an enclosure before die hunts- 
men plunge among them. The Indians, who were thus 
placed between civilization and deatli, found tiiemselves 
obliged to live ignominiously by labor, like tlie whites. 
They took to agriculture, and, without entirely forsaking 
their old habits or manners, sacrificed only as much as was 
necessary to their existence. 

The Cherokces went furtlier ; they created a written 

■ Tlicsc nations arc now ewallowcd ap m the States of Georgia, Teone*- 
MO, Alabama, and Mississippi. Tbcra were formcilir in the South Tour 
great nations (rtinnonu of wliich Blill exist), the Choctawa, the Chickasam, 
the Creeks, and iho Cberokees. The rciDnaats of thcwi four nadont 
amounted in 1830 to about 7S,000 individuati. It is computed tluu there 
ai« now remniiiing in tlie irrrilory occupied or cbutncd by the Anglo-Amei- 
kao Union a&gt;&gt;out 300,000 Indians. (Sec " Proceedings of the Indian Boanl 
in tlie CitT of Xcw York.") Tlic official documenig «applied lo Congreu 
make tbo number amount to 313,130. Ths reader who is cuiioiu to know 
the names and numerical «nength of all the tribes which inhabit the Anglo- 
Americoa icrriiorf should cousult the docutnents I hare just rdcn«d to. 
(legiekliTe Document*, SQth Congress, So. UT, pp. M-lOfi.} 



PBESENT AtO) PUTUBE CONDITION OP THE INDIANS. 443 

language, established a permanent form of government, 
and, as eveiything proceeds rapidly in the New World, 
before they all of them had clothes, they set up a news- 
paper.* 

The development of European habits has been much 
accelerated among these Indians by the mixed race which 
has sprung up.f Deriving intelligence from the fiither's 
side, without entirely losing the savage cnstoms of the 
mother, the half-blood forms the natural link between 
(-ivili/Jition and barbarism. Wherever this race has mul- 
tiplied, the savage state has become modified, and a great 
change has taken place in the manners of the people.} 

* 1 brouglit back witli me lo Franco ono dt two copies of thii BiDgnlar 

t See, in ilio Hcport of tho Committee on Indum Al^ra, 31st Congreis, 
No. !!7, p. S3, the icamns for the multiplicatioa of Indians of mixed blood 
among tlio Clierokoc«. The priocipal chugo dates from the War of Inâe- 
pendenco. Moiij Anglo-Amcricaiu of Georgia, haring taiea the side of 
Bugland, Kcre obliged to iciroiit among Ilie Indiana, wlicic they married. 

I Unhappily, llie mixed race hai been less nnmcroiu and leas influential 
in North America than in (Uij other connlrj. The American continent 
«a» peopled by two great nations of Europe, the French and the Englith. 
The former were not slow in connecting themselves with tho daoghtcrs of 
the natives ; bnt there was an nnfortunolc offinit; between the Indian char- 
acter and their own : instead of giving tho laslcs and habits of civiUiod Ufe 
to the savages, tlic French too oHec grew passionately fond of Indian life. 
Tliej became the most dangerous inliabilanlH of the desert, and won the 
friendship of the Inilian hy exaggerating hia vices and liis virtues. M. de 
Renonville, the Governor of Canada, wrote Ihu» to Louis XIV. in 1685 i 
" It has long been believed that, in order to civilize tho savages, wo ought to 
drew tlicm nearer to ds. But there is every reason to suppose we liare been 
coistaken. Tbose which have been brought into contact with us have not be- 
come French, and the French wlio have lived among (hem are changed into 
•arages, aflèctiog to dress and live like them," ("History of How France," 
by Charlcvoii, Vol. II. p. 345.) The Engliahmon, on the contrary, con- 
tinning obstinately attached to the customs and the most imignificant bobiti 
of his forefathers, has lemained in tho midst of the Amcne»n lolitndci just 
what ha was in the bosom of European cities ; he would not allow of any 
Gommonicatton with savages whom he despised, and KV&lt;i\à»^ 'vi^ oz« '&lt;k» 



444 DEMOCBACÏ IN AlIEaiCA. " 

The success of the Chen&gt;kees proves that tho Indians 
are capable of civilization, but it dows not prove that thoy 
will succeed in it. This difficulty which the Indiunn find 
in siibmiltitig to civilïaitîoii prfH^ewis from a general eaiiw, 
the influence of which it is ulmtiat impossible for them ta 
escape. An attentive survey of history demonstrates that^ 
in genenil, barliarous nations have raisetl tliemst-lvcs to 
civilization by di'greea, and by their own efforts. When- 
ever they derived knowledge from a foreign people, they 
Stood towards them in the relation of conquerors, and not 
of a conquered nation. When the conqnered nation is 
enlightened, and the conquerors are half savage, as in the 
invasion of tlic Roman empire by liie Northern nations, 
or that of China by the Mongols, the power which victory 
bestows upon tlie luirbarian is sufficient lo keep np his 
importance among civilized men, and permit him to rank 
as their equal until he becomes their rival. The one has 
might on his side, the other has intelhgence ; the former 
admires the knowledge and the arts of the conquered, the 
latter envies the power of tlie conquerors. The barbarians 
at length admit civilized man into their palaces, and he in 
turn opens his sclioob to the barbarians. But when the 
side on which tho physical force lies also possesses an intel- 
lectual superiority, the conquered party seldom become 
civilized ; it retreats, or is destroyed. It may therefore 
be said, in a general way, that savages go forth in arms 
to seek knowledge, but do not receive it when it comes 
to them. 

If the Indian tribes which now inhabit the heart of the 
continent could summon up energy enough to attempt to 
civilize themselves, they might possibly succeed. SupeTi&lt;ff 
already to the barbarous nations which surround them, 

Dnioo of faù rKC with thoirg, Thiu. while the French exercised no nlntaof 
Inflneiice over the lodiuu, the Ecgliih have «Iwaji icmainod ■lien fron 



PEESEST AND nJTUEE OOSDITIOS OF THE INDIANS. 446 

they would gradually gain strength and experience, and 
when the Europeans should appear upon their borders, 
they would be in a state, if not to maintain their indepen- 
dence, at least to assert their right to the soil, and to 
incorporate themselves with the conquerors. But it ia 
the misfortune of Indians to be brought into contact with 
a civilized people, who are also (it must be owned) the 
most grasping nation on the globe, whilst they are still 
semi-barbarian ; to find their masters in their instructors, 
and to receive knowledge and oppression at once. Living 
in the freedom of the woods, the North American Indian 
was destitute, but he had no feeling of inferiority towards 
any one ; as soon, however, as he desires to penetrate into 
the social scale of the whites, he can only take the lowest 
rank in society, for he enters, ignorant and poor, within 
the pale of science and wealth. Afler having led a life 
of agitation, beset with evils and dangers, but at the same 
time filled with proud emotions,* he is obliged to submit 

■ There is in ihe gdveittiirou» lire of the hoater a certain irresistible 
charm, irhich seizes the hun of man, and ouiiea h™ ans; in apiie of no- 
too and expericace. This is plainly shovn by the " Memoirs of Tanner." 
Tanner wu s Enropcan who wob carried away at the age of six by tlio In- 
dians, and remained thirty years with ihem in the woods, Notliinj; ean be 
tunceiïcd mora appalling than the miBcrie» which bo dogcribcs. He (ells ua 
of tribca wiihont a chief, bmilies withoat a nation lo call their oim, meo in 
a slate of isolation, wrecks of powerful tribes wandering at random amid the 
ice and snow and desolate solitudes of Canada. Iluagcr and cold pursoe 
them ; every day Ibcir life is in jeopardy. Amongst these men, manner* 
ha~e lost tlieir empire, traditions arc «rilhont power. They bororae more 
and morn savnjn'' Tanner shared in all the«e miseries ; lie was aware of 
his Eiiro|&gt;ean origin ; he was not kept away from the white* by force ; on 
the contrary, bo came every year to trade with ihem, entered their dwellings, 
and wilnesscd their enjoyinents ; ho knew that whenever he chose lo return to 
civilixed life, he was perfectly able to do so, — and he remained Diirty years 
in the deserts. When he carae into civiliiîe'i society, he declared that tha 
ride existence, the miseries of which he described, had a secret charm for 
him which he eould not define : he ratnmed to it again and again ; m length 
he abandoned it with poignant r^iet ; and whea be ^laa Ul \»a^ %at&amp; 



446 OEUOCBAOri! 

to a wearisome, obsciirc, and degraded stale. To gain the 
bread which noarishes him \ty hard and ignoble labor, — 
this is in hia eyea the only result of which civiJiitation can 
boast ; and even this lie is not always sure to obtain. 

Wlien the Indians undertake to imitate tlieir European 
neighbors, and to till tin- i-artb like ihem, thoy are imme- 
diately exposed to a. formidable competition. The wliite 
man is skilled in the craft of agriculture ; the Indian is a 
rough beginner in an art with which he is unacquainted. 
The former rcapa abimdant crops without difficulty, the 
latter meets with a thousand obstacles in raising the fruits 
of the earth, 

Tiie European ia placed amongst a population whose 
wants he knows and partakes. The savage is isolated in 
tiiu ntiddt of a hostile people, with wliose maiiuers, lan- 
guage, and laws he is imperfectly acquainted, but without 
whose assistance he cannot live. He can only procure the 
materials of comfort by bartering Ins commodities for the 
goods of the European, for the assistance of his country- 
men is wholly insufficient to supply his wants. Thus, 
when the Indian wishes to sell the produce of his labor, 
he cannot always find a purchaser, whilst the European 
readily obtains a market ; the former can only produce at 
considerable cost what the latter sells at a low rate. Thus 
the Indian has no sooner escaped those evils to which bar- 
barous nations are exposed, than he is subjected to the still 
greater miseries of civilized communities; and he finds it 
scarcely less difficult to live in the midst of our abundance, 
than in tlie depth of his own forest. 

lUDODg tho wTJtcs, several of hia children refused to share bia tTBaqail and 
taay eiiuatioa. I saw Tanner myself at the lower end of Lake Siq&gt;eiior : 
he Bcemed to mo moro like a savage than a civilized being. Hi« book 
a written without either taste or order ; bat he gives, even Doeoiucioaslf, K 
Snty picture of the prejudices, the passions, the ricca, and, above all, llw 
deitinicion, ia the nûâ«t ol v\ûc\i.\iB^f«&amp;. 



^•- &gt; 



PHESENT AND FUTUBE CONDITION OF THE INDIANS. 447 

He hna not yet lost the habits of his erratic life ; the 
traditions of his fathers and his passion for the chase are 
still alive within him. The wild enjoyments which for- 
merly animated him in the woods painfully excite his 
troubled imagination ; the privations which he endured 
there appear less keen, his former perils less appalling. 
He contrasts the independence which lie possessed amongst 
his equals with the servile position which he occupies in 
civilized society. On the other hand, the solitudes which 
were so long his free home are still at hand ; a few hours' 
march will bring him back to them once more. The 
whites otFer him a sum, which seems to him considerable, 
for the half-cleared ground whence he obtains sustenance 
with difficulty. This money of the Europeans may possibly 
enable him to live a happy and tranquil life far away from 
them ; and he qnits the plough, resumes Ins native arms, 
and returns to the wilderness forever.* . The condition of 

* This iIcstmctÎTe iaflncnco of highly drilizcd nations npon otlicra nhich 
ant teai go, tins been obscrrcd lUDong the EoropconB thcmsclvcB. Aboal k 
cenluiy nj^, the French founded ihc toim of Vinrcnncs upon the Wnbuh, 
in tho middle of Iho dcsm; and thev lived there in great plenty, nntil the 
arriral of the American Eetllcn, who lim ruined tho previous inhaliitants by 
their competition, and aiïenvards purchased their lands at a very low rate. 
At llic time n-bcn M. do Volncy, from whom 1 borrow thcM details, passed 
'through Vincenne», Iho number of the French was rcdaecd to a liundrod 
individuals, most of whom were aboni to migrate lo Louisiana or to Can- 
ada. Tliesa Frcneh settlers were worthy people, bat idle and nninslructed : 
they liod cootracied many of the Iiabits of savages. Tho Amcrieana. who 
were perhaps their inferiors in a moral point of ricw, were immeasurably 
superior to thera in intolliBonco : they were iuduslrious, well inforiped, rich, 
and atiustonted to govern their own eommauity. 

I mvBcIf saw in Canada, where the intellectual difference between the two 
races is less striking, that tho English ore the luBsten of commerce and man- 
ufacture in the Canadian country, thai they spread on all sides, and confine 
the French witliin limits whii'h scarcely snffice to contain them. In like 
manner, in Louisiana, almost all activity iu eommorce and manufacture een- 
ties in tlie hands of the Anglo- Americoiu. 

But the case of Tobias is still more striking: the State of leubS/kk^AK 



448 DEMOCBACT IN AUEBIGA. 

the Creeks and Cherokees, to which I have afaready alladed, 
sufficiently corroborates the tmth of this sad picture. 

The Indians, in the little which iSiej have done, have un- 
questionably displayed as much natural genius as the peo- 
ples of Europe in their greatest undertakings ; but nations 
as well as men require time to learn, whatever may be 
their intelligence and their zeal. Whilst the savages were 
endeavoring to civilize themselves, the Europeans contin- 
ued to surround them on every side, and to confine them 
within narrower limits ; the two races gradually met, and 
they are now in immediate contact with each other. The 
Indian is already superior to his barbarous parent, but he 
is still far below his white neighbor. With their resour- 
ces and acquired knowledge, the Europeans soon appro- 
priated to themselves most of the advantages which the 
natives might have derived from the possession of the soil: 
they have settled among them, have purchased land at a 
low rate, or have occupied it by force, and the Indians 
have been ruined by a competition which they had not 
the means of sustaining. They were isolated in their own 
country, and tlieir race only constituted a little colony of 
troublesome strangers in the midst of a nimierous and 
dominant people.* 

of Mexico, and is upon the frontier between that countiy and the United 
States. In the course of tlie last few years, the Anglo-Americans have 
penetrated into this province, which is still thmly peopled ; they purchase 
land, they produce the commodities of the country, and supplant the origi- 
nal population. It may easily be foreseen, that, if Mexico takes no steps to 
check tliis cliange, the province of Texas will very shortly cease to belong 
to that government. 

If the different degrees — comparatively slight — which exist in Enio- 
pean civilization produce results of such magnitude, it is easy to understand 
what must happen when the most perfect European civilization comes in 
contact with Indian barbarism. 

* See in the Ixjp^islative Documents (21 st Congress, No. 89) instances of 
excesses of every kind committed by the whites upon the territory of tbe 
Indians, either in taking pouftSèioTi ot «^ ^^«x\i qC their lands, imtil compelled 



PRESENT AND FUTURE CONDITION OF THE DJIHANS. 449 

Washington said, in one of bis messages to Congress, 
"We are more enlightened and more powerful than the 
Indian nations ; ^ve are therefore bound in honor to treat 
them with kindness, and even with generosity." But this 
virtuous and high-minded policy has not been followed. 
The rapacity of the settlers is usually backed by the 
tyranny of the government. Although the Cherokees 
and the Creeks are established upon territory which they 
mhabited before the arrival of tbe Europeans, and although 
the Americans have frequently treated with them as with 
foreign nations, the surrounding States liave not been will- 
ing to acknowledge them as an independent people, and 
have undertaken to subject these children of the woods to 
Anglo-American magistrates, laws, and customs,* Desti- 
tution had driven these unfortunate Indians to civilization, 
and oppression now drives them back to barbarism : many 

to retire by the troops of Congiees, or canTÎng off their cattle, burning theii 
homes, cullinj^ âuwn tticir com, &amp;nd doing Tiolencc to thcii persons. 

Tho Union liiu a rpprcseatatiTe agent continually employed 10 nside 
among the Indians ; nnd the report of the Cherokee agent, wliich is among 
the docDmcnta I have rcFcrrcd to, is almost alwBp bvomblc to the Indians. 
"The intrasion of «■likes," he says, "npon the lands of the Cherokees will 
csDSe ruin to tha poor, helpless, and iooffi^nsiye inhabitanta." And he far- 
ther remarks upon the attempt of the State of Georgia to establish ■ boun- 
du7 tiue for the country of (he Cherokees, that tho line, having been made 
by the whiles alone, and entirely upon er parte evidence of tlieir sereral 
righta, was of no validity vhatevei. 

• Id 1 8Ï9, tho State of Alabama divided the Credi territory iuio eountici, 
and subjected the Indian population lo Enrapean magistrates. 

In 1830, (he State of Mississtp;» astimllatcd the Choctaws and Chicka- 
sawi to the while population, and declared that any of them who shoiUd . 
take the tide of chief should be punjahed by a fine of 1 ,000 dollars and 
a year's imprisoument. When these laws were announced to the Choc- 
tawi, wlio inhabited that district, the tribe assembled, their chief comma- 
nicated to them the intentions of the whites, and. read to them some of 
the laws to which it was intended that they should submit] and they 
munimonslj declared that it was better at once to retreat again Into tba 



I 



4M OKMfK-RACY IM AMKKICA. 

vf ilwm «Wndfmi tW soil which they had be^un to dear, 
«nvt ivtnm lt&gt; the habits of savage life. 

If &lt;Kv cou»il&lt;-T the trraimka! mf^astires "ivhich have been 
«lu(&gt;tMt br th^ IvfpsUtttrca of the Southern States, the coH' 
tliftct at' iknr (lOTvnKKs, and the decrees of their courts of 
jartK'Tt w« skall W coaTÎnccd that the entire espulaion of 
^ IttdMBB » tlw GmI nwnli to which all the efforts of their 
Holtc^ M« iBuilnl The AmrricoDs of that part of the 
INmw ImIe with J Mkw u y upon the bndâ which tlie natives 
MM |utincflt ;* tbe^ve aware that tbvse tribes have not yet 
^ A* tm£tàoa* of «rage life, and before civ-ilization has 
f fixed them to the soil, it is intended to force 
R t« dejMTt by mlactng ihem to de^tr. The Creeks 
»m\ C^tfraktv*, ojipre*s«I by the several States, have ap- 
)N&gt;*k&gt;l to (lie ci-ntnil yuvtrnment, which is by no means 
HWi'Dsible to their misfortunes, and is ^ncerely desirous 
dil' saving the remnant of the natives, and of maintaining 
titcm in the free possession of that territory which the 
Vnion has guaranteed to ttiem.f But the several States 
opjvose so formidable a resistance to the execution of this 
&lt;iosign, that the government is obliged to consent to the ex- 
tiqiation of a few barbarous tribes, already half destroyed, 
in onler not to endanger the safety of the American Union. 

But the Federal government, which is not able to pro- 
tect the Indians, would fain mitigate the hardships of their 
lot ; and, with this intention, it has undertaken to trans- 
port them into remote regions at the public cost. 

■ The Georgians, who tie &gt;a much troubled b; tbo proiimit/ of the In- 
diuu, inliabit a lerritor; which does not at present contain more tbon sevm 
iababiCBDts to the aqoare mile. In France, there are one hundred and dxtj- 
two inhabitants to the satnE extent of country. 

t In 1818, Conpv«s appointed rummisaionen to visit the Arkansas t&gt;r- 
ritory, acrotnpaDied by a deputation of Creeks, Choctawa, and Chickasaw*. 
This expedition was commanded by Messrs. Kenncrly , M'Coj, Wash Hood, 
■Dd John Bell. Sec the ditfcrcnt Reports of tlic ComioiBSiODcrs, and tbeir 
■jotaiui, JD the DocQtntnn of Coagccss. I4a. 87, Home of RepreseiilBtiTM. 



AKD FUTURE COKDITIO!! OF TEE INDIANS. 461 

Between the 33d and 37th degrees of north latitude, a 
vast tract of country lies, which has taken the name of 
Arkansas, froiu the principal river that waters it. It is 
bounded on the one side by the confines of Mexico, on the 
other by the Mississippi. Numberless streams cross it in 
every direction ; the climate is mild, and the soil produc- 
tive, and it is inhabited only by a few wandering hordes 
of sav^ages. The government of the Union wishes to 
transport the broken remnants of the indigenous popula- 
tion of the South to the portion of this country which 
is nearest to Mexico, and at a great distance from the 
American settlements. 

We were assured, towards the end of the year 1831, 
that 10,000 Indians had already gone to the shores of the 
Arkansas, and iresh detachments were constantly follow- 
ing them. But Congress has been unable to create a unan- 
imous determination in those whom it is disposed to protect. 
Some, indeed, joyfully consent to quit the seat of oppres- 
sion ; but the most enlightened members of the community 
refiise to abandon their recent dwellings and their spring- 
ing crops ; they are of opinion that the work of civiliza- 
tion, once interrupted, will never be resumed ; they fear 
that those domestic liabits which have been so recently 
contracted may be irrevocably lost in the midst of a coun- 
try which is still barbarous, and where nothing is prepared 
for the subsistence of an agricultural people ; they know 
that their entrance into those wilds will be opposed by 
hostile hordes, an&lt;l that they have lost the energy of bar- 
barians, without having yet acquired the resources of civ- 
ilization to 'resist tlieir attacks. Moreover, the Indians 
readily discover that the settlement which is proposed to 
them is merely temporary. Who can assure them that 
they will at length be allowed to dwell in peace in their 
new retreat? The United States pledge themselvefl to 
maintain them there; but the territory which thc^ tus^ 



452 DEUOCBACT IN AIUJEICA. 

occupy was formerly secured to them by the moat solemn 
oatJis.' The American government does not. indeed now 
rob them of their lauds, but it allows perpetual encroach- 
ments on tliem. In a few years, the same wliitt» popula- 
tion nliich now flocks arotind them will doubtless track 
them anew to tlie Bolitudes of tha Arknnsas ; they will 
then be exposed to Uie same evils, without tlie same reme- 
dies ; and as the limits of the earth will at last fail them, 
their only refuge is the grave, 

Tlic Union treats the Indians with less cupidity and 
violence than ttie several States, but the two governments 
are alike deficient in good faith. The States extend what 
they call the benefits of their laws to the Indians, believ- 
ing that the tribes will recede rather than submit to them ; 
and the central government, which promises a permanent 
refuge to these unhappy beings in the West, îs well aware 
of its inability to secure it to them.f Thus the tyranny 

■ The fifth article of ihe ircaty made with iho Crccka in August, 1790, it 
in the following wonla : "Tho Cniced Statci solcmnty gnnranlM: to the 
Oreck nation all their lanil within tho limits of the United Sintcs." 

The seventh article of the treaty coneluded in 1791 with tho Chcrokeei 
' mje : " Tlie United State» eoiemnly guarantco to tlie Cherokee nation all 
flicir lands not hereby ceded." The foUowitig article declared that, if any 
eitizcii of the United States, or otlier Butller not of the Indian race, shonld 
CHtahlish himself upon the lerricory of the Cherokecs, the United States 
woDld wnihdraw their proteetion iVom that iodiridual, and give him up to be 
panisbeil as the Clicrokee nation shonld think fit. 

t This ilocs not prevent them from promising in the most solemn maoner 
to do so. See tho letter of tho President addressed to the Creek Indians, 
aad Miireh, 1829. "Beyond the greal river Misaissijipi, where a part of 
your nation has gone, yonr fiithcr has provided a eonnlry large enough for 
all of you, and he advise* you to remove to it. There your while brother» 
will not trouble yon ; lliey will have no claim to the land, and you can lira 
upon it, you and all your children, as long as the grass grows, or tho water 
rung, in peace and plenty. It will be ^ars firaxr." 

The Sccrctaij of War, in a letter written to the Cherokecs, April 18th, 
1829, doclaics to them thu they e&amp;unot expect to rctaio possession of tha 



PBESENT AND rOTUBE COHDITIOH 0? THE INDIANS. 468 

of the States obliges the savages to retire; the Union, by 
its promises and resources, £icilitates their retreat ; and 
these measures tend to precisely the same end.* 

" By the will of our Father in Heaven, the Gov- 
ernor of the whole world," said the Cherokees, in their 
petition to CongresSit " the red man of America has 
become small, and the white man great and renowned. 
When the ancestors of the people of tliese United Stat« 
first came to the shores of America, they found the red 
man strong : though he was ignorant and savage, yet he 
received them kindly, and gave them dry land to rest 
their weary feet. They met in peace, and shook hands 
in token of friendship. Whatever the white man wanted 
and asked of the Indian, the latter willingly gave. At 
that time, the Indian was the lord, and tlie white man 
the suppliant. But now the scene has changed. The 
strength of the red man has become weakness. As bis 
neighbors increased in numbers, his power became less 
and less ; and now, of the many and powerful tribes who 
once covered these United States, only a few are to be 
seen, — a few whom a sweeping pestilence has left. The 
Northern tribes, who were once so numerous and pow- 
erful, are now nearly extinct. Thus it has happened to 

l«nd« at that lime occupied by tbem, but givw thera the moei poaitive lusnr- 
ancB of nnintciTuptod peace if they would remove beyond the Miesissippi : 
ta if tlic power which could not graot them protectiOD then, would be Bbl* 
to afford it them liercoftcr t 

■ To oblain a correct idea of. the policy pnraned by the KTeral Statu aod 
the Union with roipect to Che Indiaui, it is ueceasaij to consnlt, — lat. " The 
Lawa of the Colonial and Stale GoreniinenCs relating lo the Indian Inhab- 
itants." (Soe the Lcgislalivo Docnnient», 21M Congtes», No. 319.) Sd. 
"The I«we of the Union on the same «abject, and cspocinlly ttiat of March 
30th. 1802." (Seo Slor/a "Iaws of the United Stslca.") 3d. "The 
Beport of Mr. Cass, Secrelaij of War, relative to Indian Attira, NoTembei 
aSth, IS23." 

t December ISCh, 1829. 



•454 DEMOCRACT IS AMEBICA. 



^ 



tlie rod man of America. Shall we, who are 
sliare (he same Tate ? 

" The laiid on which we ataiwl we liave received as an 
inheritance from our fathers, who possessed it £rom tinae 
immemorial, aa a gift from our common Father in Heaven. 
They bequeatlicd it to us as tlieir children, and we liave 
flacrt^dly kept it, as containing the remains of our beloved 
men. This right of inhcritauce we have never ceded, nor 
ever forfeited. Permit us to ask, wliat better right can the 
people have to a country than the right of inheritance and 
immemorial peaceable possession ? We know it is said 
of late by the State of Georgia and by the Executive of 
the United States, that we bave forfeited tliis right; but 
we tliiiik this is said gratuitously. At whiit time have %ve 
made the forfeit? What great crime have we committed, 
whereby we must forever be divested of our country and 
rights? Was it when we were hostile to the United 
States, and took part with the king of Great Britain, 
during the struggle for independence? If so, why was 
not this forfeiture declared in tlie first treaty of peace 
between the United States and our beloved men ? Why 
was not such an article as the following inserted in the 
treaty : ' The United States give peace to the Cherokees, 
but, for the part they took in the late war, declare them 
to be but tenants at will, to be removed when the conven- 
ience of the States within whose chartered limits they live 
shall require it'? That was tlie proper time to assume 
such a possession. But it was not thought of; nor would 
our forefathers have agreed to any treaty whose tendency 
wai to deprive them of their rights and tlieir country." 

Such is the language of the Indians ; what they say 
is true ; what they foresee seems inevitable. From which- 
ever side we consider the destinies of the aborigines of 
North America, their calamities appear irremediable : if 
they continue batWovB, tW^ axa forced to retire ; if they 



FBESENT AND PVTtmE CONDITION OF TBE INDIANS. 455 

attempt to civilize themselves, the contact of a more civ- 
ilized community subjects them to oppression and destitu- 
tion. They perisii if they continue to wander from waste 
to waste, and if they attempt to settle, they still must per- 
ish. The assistance of Europeans is necessary to instruct 
them, but the approach of Europeans corrupts and repels 
them into savage life. They reiuae to change their habits 
as long as their solitudes are their own, and it is too 
late to change them when at last they are constrained 
to submit. 

The Spaniards pursued tlie Indians with blood-hounds, 
like wild beasts ; they sacked the New World Uke a city 
taken by storm, with no discernment or compassion ; but 
destruction must cease at last, and frenzy has a limit: 
the remnant of the Indian population which had escaped 
the massacre mixed with its conquerors, and adopted in the 
end theh* religion and th«r manners.* The conduct of 
the Americans of the United States towards the aborigines 
is characterized, on the other hand, by a singular attach- 
ment to the formalities of law. Provided that the Indians 
retain their barbarous condition, the Americans take no 
part in their affairs ; they treat them as independent 
nations, and do not possess themselves of their hunting- 
grounds witliout a treaty of purchase ; and if an Indian 
nation happen to be so encroached upon as to be unable 
to sulsist upon their territory, they kindly take them by 
the hand and transport them to a grave far from the land 
of their fethers. 

The Spaniards were unable to exterminate the Indian 
race by those unparalleled atrocities which brand them 
with indelible shame, nor did they even succeed in wholly 

* The honor of this ivsnlt U, howBTer, bj no meani doe tu the Sp&amp;niwb. 
IT ihe Indian Iribcs hod not been tiUera of the ground *t the tune of the 
arriral of the Eoropcans, the; wonid nnqnectioiiablj hire been deitiOTed ÎD 
Soath u well as in North Amerio. 



456 DEllOCRACY IN AMEBICA. 

depriving it of its riglits ; but the Americans of llie United 
States hnve accomplished this twofold purjiose wîtb singu- 
lar fflicity, tranquilly, legally, philaniliropicall)', withoat 
shedding hlood, and without violating a single great prin- 
ciple of morality in the eyes of the world.* It is impoa- 
tihle to destroy men with more nspect for the laws ttf 
humanity. 



srruATioN OF the black population in the united 

STATE9, AND DANGERS WITH VmiCH ITS PRESENCE 
TUKEATENa THE WRITE8. 

Wliy it 19 mora difficult lo abolish Sluvcrj, and to rfTucu all Vtsiigcf of il 
Hraongst ihc MuJctds, than il was araonpst ttie AdfioiiU, — In iht Uuiied 
States, the rrejadiccs of the Whites Eigaiiut the Blscks H«n to increaae 
in Proportion aa Slaverj is abolished. — Situation of the Negroes in As 
NortherD and Southern Stales. — Why the Americans abolish Slateij. 
— Senritadc, which debases the Slave, impoverishes the Maatet. — Con- 
trast between the left and the right Bank of the Ohio. — To what at- 
tributable. — The Black Rare, as well' as SlsTerj, recedes towards the 
South. — Explanation of this Fact. — Difficnlljcs attendant upon tba 
Abolition of Slavery io the Sooth. — Dangers lo come. — General Anx- 
iety. — Foundation of a Blaek Colony in Airica. — Why the Americans 
of the Sonth iuerease the Hardships of Slavery, whilst they are ilii liin»il 
at its Continuance. 

The Indians will perish in the same isolated condition in 
which they have lived ; but the destiny of the Negroes is 
in some measure interwoven with that of the Europeans. 

* See, amongst other documents, the Report made by Mr. Bell in the 
name of the Committee on Indian A^n, February S4th, IS30, in which it 
is most logically csiablished, and moat learnedly proved, that "the (iinda- 
mental principle, that the Indians had no right, hy i-irtne of their aodent 
possession, either of soil or sovereignty, has never been abandoned either ex- 
fnm\j or by implication." 

In perusing this Report, which is evidently drawn up by a tkilfiil hand. 



PKESENT AND FUTUBE COHDmOK OF THE KEGROES. 457 

These two races are listened to each other without inteiv 
mingling ; and they are alike unable to separate entirely or 
to combine. The most formidable of all the ilb which 
threaten the future of the Union arises from the presence 
of a black population upon its territory ; and in contem- 
plating the cause of the present emban-assments, or the 
ftiture dangers of the United States, the observer is inva- 
riably led to tliis as a primary fiict. 

Generally speaking, men must make great and unceasing 
efforts before permanent evils are created ; but there is one 
calamity which penetrated furtively into the world, and 
wliich was at first scarcely distinguishable amidst the ordi- 
nary abuses of power ; it ori^nated with an individual 
whose name iiistory has not preserved ; it was wafted like 
some accursed germ upon a portion of the soil ; but it 
aflerwards nurtured itself, grew without effort, and spread 
naturally with the society to which it belonged. This 
calamity is slavery. Christianity suppressed slavery, but 
the Cliristians of the sixteenth century re-established it, — ■ 
as an exception, indeed, to their social system, and restrict- 
ed )o one of the races of mankind ; but the wonnd thus 
inflicted upon humanity, though less extensive, was fiir 
more difficult of cure. 

It is important to make an accurate distinction between 
slavery itself and it^ consequences. The immediate evils 
produced by slavery were very nearly the same in antiqui- 
ty as they are amongst the modems ; but the consequencee 
of these evils were different. The slave, amongst the 
ancients, belonged to the same race as his master, and 

one is utooiihcd at tho tadlitj with vhich tha author gets rid of all azga.' 
menli founded upon leuon nnd oaianit right, which he designates as ab- 
ttiBCt and theoretical principle!. The mora I contcmplatâ tb« diObrenca 
between ciriliicd and DQciriliied mm with tegard lo the principle* of jna- 
tice, tho more I observe tltal tbe former conteMs tbe Ibandaljoa of thOM 
lighti, which the latter simpljr rioUUf. 
30 



'468 DEHOCBACY IN AUEBIOA. 

WW often the superior of the two in edncation * and intd&gt; 
ligence. Freedom was- the only distinction between them ; 
and when freedom was conferred, Ûiej were easily con- 
founded together. The ancients, then, had a very simjde 
means of ridding themselves of slavery and its cons^ 
quences, — that of enfranchisement ; and they succeeded 
BS soon as tliey adopted this measjire generally. Not hot 
that, in ancient states, the vestiges of servitude subsisted 
for some time after servitude itself was. abolished. Then 
is a natural prejudice which prompts men to despise wh&lt;m- 
soever has been th^r interior long after he is become their 
equal ; and the real inequality which is produced by for- 
tune or by law is always succeeded by an imaginary in- 
equality which is implanted in the manners of the people. 
But, among tlie ancients, this secondary consequence of 
slavery had a natural limit ; for the freedman bore so en- 
tire a resemblance to those bom free, tliat it soon became 
impossible to distinguish lihn from them. 

The greatest difficulty in antiquity was that of altering 
the law ; amongst the modems, it is that of altering the 
manners ; and, as far as we arc concerned, the real obsta- 
cles begin where tliose of the ancients left oif. This arises 
from tbe circumstance that, amongst the modems, the ab- 
stract and transiont foct of slaveiy is &amp;tally united with 
the physical and permanent fact of color. The tradition 
of slavery dishonors tlie race, and the pecidiarity of the 
race por|)ctuates the tradition of slavery. No African has 
ever vohnitarijy emigrated to the shores of the New World, 
whence it follows that all the blacks who are now found 
there are either slaves or freedmcn. Thus the Negro 
transmits the eternal mark of his ignominy to all his de- 

• It is well known that ecTCral of tho mon distinguished anihon ot an- 
liquify, anJ amorij.'el llicra ,^op and Terence, were, or hBd been, slaw». 
SUtcs were not always token from bnrbarotu nalioru ; iho chauecs of war 
lednccd highly civitoà mon Wt wniwdo. 



FBE5ENT AND FUTUSE CONDITION OP THE MEGBOES. 469 

Bcendants ; and although the law may abolish slaveiy, Ood 
ftlone can obliterate the traces of its existence. 

The modern slave differs from his master not only in bis 
condition, but in his origin. You may set the Negro free, 
but you cannot make him otherwise than an alien to the 
European. Nor is this all ; we scarcely acknowledge the 
common features of humanity in this stranger whom slav- 
ery has brought amongst us. His physiognomy is to our 
eyes liideous, his understanding weak, his tastes low ; and 
we are almost inclined to look upon him as a being inter- 
mediate between man and tlie brutes,* The modems, 
then, after they have abolished slavery, have three preju- 
dices to contend agidnst, which arc less easy to attack, and 
fiir less easy to conquer, than tlie mere fact of servitude, 
— the prejudice of the master, the prejudice of the mce, 
and the prejudice of color. 

It is difficult for us, who have had the good fortune to 
be bom amongst men like ourselves by nature, and our 
equals by law, to conceive the iireconcilable differences 
which separate the Negro from the European in America. 
But we may derive some faint notion of them from anal- 
ogy. France was formerly a country in which numerous 
inequalities existed, that had been created by law. Noth- 
ing can be more fictitious than a purely legal inferiority, — 
nothing more contraiy to the instinct of mankind than 
these permanent divisions established between beings evi- 
dently similar. Yet these di\'isions subsisted for ages ; 
they still subsist in many places ; and everywhere they 
have left imaginary vestiges, which time alone can eflace. 
If it be BO difficult to root out an inequality which ori^- 
nates solely in the law, how are those distinctions to be 
destroyed which .seem to be based upon the immutable 

* To induce the irhiies lo abandon tho opinion thej hare conceiTed oTtha 
moral and intellectual inferioritj of their former ilavei, the Vegmiil miut 
ehaDga ; but at long a» tbig opiuioD «ub^ti, thej cuuuA dos^ 



460 DEUOCKACT K AHESICX 

laws of Nature herself? When I reraembep the extreme 
difficulty with which aristocratic bodies, of whatever us^ 
turc they may be, are pommingled with tlie mass of the 
people, and the exceeding care which they fake to preserve 
fur ages tlie ideal boundaries of their caste inviolate, I de- 
spair of seeing an aristocracy disappear which is founded 
u])on visible aud indelible signs. Those who hope that the 
Eui-opt'ans will ever be amalgamated witb the Negroee 
appear to me to delude themselves : I am not li-d to any 
such conclusion by my reason, or by the evidence of &amp;cts. 
Hiiberto, wherever the whites have been the most power- 
ful, tliey have held the blacks in degi'adation or in slavery ; 
wherever the Negroes have been strongest, they Iiave de- 
stroyed tlie whites : tliis has been the only balance which 
has ever taken place between the iwo races. 

I see that, in a certain portion of the territory of the 
United States, at the present day, the legal barrier which 
separated the two races is felling away, but not that which 
exists in the manners of the country ; slavery recedes, but 
the prejudice to which it has given birth is immovable. 
Whoever has inhabited the United States must have per- 
ceived, that, in those parts of the Union in which the 
Negroes are no longer slaves, they have in no wise drawn 
nearer to the whites. On the contrary, the prejudice of 
race appears to be stronger in the States which have abol- 
ished slavery, than in those where it still exists ; and no- 
where is it so intolerant as In those States where servitude 
has never been known- 
It is true, that in the North of the Union marriages may 
he legally contracted between Negroes and whites ; but 
public opinion would stigmatize as iniiunous a man who 
should connect himself with a Negress, and it would be 
difficult to cite a single instance of sucli a union. The 
electoral franchise has been conferred upon the Negroes in 
almost all the States in which slavery has been abolished ; 



PBESENT AND FUTUBE CONDITION OF THE NEGB0E3. 461 

but if they come forward to vote, their live» are in danger. 
If oppressed, they may bring an action at law, but they 
will find none but whites amongst their judges ; and al- 
thougli tliey may legally serve as jurors, prejudice repeb 
them from that office. The same schools do not receive 
the children of the black and of the European.* In the 
theatres, gold cannot procure a seat for the servile race 
beside their former masters ; in the hospitals, they lie 
apart ; and although they are allowed to invoke the same 
God as the whites, it must be at a different altar, and in 
their own churches, with their own clergy. The gates of 
Heaven are not closed against them ; but their inferior- 
ity is continued to the very confines of the other world. 
When the Negro dies, his bones are cast aside, and the 
distinction of condition prevaib even in the equality of 
death. t Thus the Negro is free, but he can share neither 
the rights, nor the pleasures, nor the lahor^ nor the afflic- 
tions, nor the tomb of him whose equal he has been de- 
clared to be ; and he cannot meet him upon fair terms in 
life or in death. 

In the South, where slavery still exists, the Negroes are 
less carefully kept apart ; they sometimes share the labor» 
and the recreations of the whites ; the whites consent to 
intermix with them to a certain extent, and although legis- 
lation treats them more harshly, the habits of the people 
are more tolerant and compassionate. In the South, the 
master is not afraid to raise his slave to his own standing, 
because he knows that he can in a moment reduce him to 
the, dust, at pleasure. In the North, the white no longer 

• This !» a mîBiiito. In most of the pnblic KhooU in the Northem 
SuUet, blnck and wtiiio cliildran nmy bo fbnnd side hy aide ia the wme clasi- 
room. Blacks ma; also be fonnd Id mailj of the chorches, Ihough ia tep*- 
ntesuts. — Av. Ed. 

t This is eloquent, bat it is not true. Negroes are bnricd in the BUIM 
grareyards, and often in the same tomfai, with wbJKt. — An. Bd. 




462 DEMOCRACY IN AUEBICA. 

distinctlj perceives the barrier which séparâtes him &amp;oni 
the degraded race, and ho shum the Negro with tlie more 
pertinacitj, since he fears lest they should some day ba 
confounded together. 

Amongst the Americans of the SoutJi, Nature some- 
times reasserts her rights, and restores a transient equality 
between the blacks and tlie whites; but in tlie North, 
pride restrains the most imperious of human passions. The 
American of the Nortlicm Slates would, perhajM, allow 
the Negress to share his licentious pleasures, if the laws 
of his country did not declare that she may aspire to bo 
the legitimate partner of liis bed ; but he recoils with hor- 
ror tVom her who might become his wife. 

Tims it is, in the United States, that the prejudice which 
repels the Negroes seems to increase in proporiion as they 
are emancipated, and inequality is sanctioned by the man- 
ners whilst it is effaced from the laws of the country. Bot 
if the relative position of the two races which inhabit the 
United States is such as I have described, why liave the 
Americans abolished slavery in the North of the Union, 
why do they maintain it in the South, and why do they 
aggravate its hardships ? The answer is easily given. It 
is not for the good of the Negroes, but for that of the 
whites, that measures are taken to abolish slavery in the 
United States. 

The first Negroes were imported into Virginia about the 

■ear 1621.* In America, therefore, as well as in the rest 
Ipf the globe, slavery originated in the South. Thence it 

pread from one settlement to another ; but the number of 
slaves diminished towards the Nortliern States, and the Ne- 
gro population was always very limited in New England. f 

• See Beverloy'B History of Virginia. See also in Jeflferaon's Mcnioin 
K&gt;m« curious details concerning tlie introduction of Negrcxa into Virginia, 
■nd the llrsi Act which proliibited the importation of them, in 1778. 

t The Dnmber ot ïUv«a wu less considerable in the North, but tin id- 



PRESENT ASD FUTURE CONDITION OP THE NEGE0E3. 463 

A century had scarcely elapsed since the foundation of 
the Colonies, when the attention of the planters was struck 
by the extraordinary fact, that the provinces which were 
comparatively destitute of slaves increased in population, 
in wealth, and in prosperity more rapidly than those which 
contained many of them. In the former, however, the 
inhabitants were obliged to cultivate the soil themselves, 
or by hired laborers ; in the latter, they were iumishe»! 
with hands for which they paid no wages. Yet, though 
labor and expense were on the one side, and ease with 
economy on the other, the former had the more advanta- 
geous system. This result seemed the more difficult to 
explain, since the settlers, who all belonged to the same 
European race, had the same habits, the same civilization, 
the same laws, and their shades of difference were ex- 
tremely slight. 

Time, however, continued to advance ; and the Anglo- 
Americans, spreading beyond the coasts of the Atlantic 
Ocean, penetrated farther and farther into the solitudes 
of the West ; they met there with a new soil and an 
unwonted climate ; they had to overcome obstacles of the 
most various character ; their races intermingled, the in- 
habitants of the South going up towards the North, those 
of the North descending to the South. But in the midst 
of all these causes, tiie same result occurred at every step ; 

TUitages rcanlting from ilavcrj wens not mora contested there thm in the 
Bonlh. In 1 740, the LegiiUtnro of the State or Ncv York declared that th« 
direct importatioa of sUvea oaghl to be encouraged as much a» possible, and 
■muggling Bovorelj puniahod, in order not to dÎBcouragfl the fiiic trader. 
(Kent's Commentaries, Vol. II. p. 306.) Curious researches, lif Betknap, 
upon slavery in New England, ore to be found in the Historical Collectiont 
of Ifwsacbittetta, Vol. IV. p. 193. It appcan that Negroes wen; introdnred 
there in 1630, but that the legislation and mannen of the people ircro op- 
powd to (larcrj trom tlie first; see also, in the same work, the manner in 
which public opinion, and afterwards the laws, finoUf put an end to 



M4 DEMOCBACir m AMERrCA. 

in general, tlie colonies in which there were no slaves be- 
came moro populous and more prospérons than those is 
which slavery flourished. The farther they went, the 
more was it sliown that slavery, which is so cmel to the 
slave, is prejudicial to the master. 

But this truth was most satisfactorily demonstratetl when 
civilization reached the banks of the Ohio. The stream 
which the Indians had distinguished by the name of Ohio, 
or the Beautiful River, waters one of the most magnifieent 
valleys which has ever been made the abode of man. Un- 
dulating lands extend upon both shores of tlie Ohio, whose 
soil affords inexhaustible treasures to tlie laborer ; on either 
bank, the air is equally wholesome and the climate mild; 
and each of tliem forms the extreme frontier of a vast 
State: that wliich follows the numerous windings of the 
Ohio upon the left is called Kentucky; that upon the 
right bears the name of the river, Tliese two States 
differ only in a single respect ; Kentucky has admitted 
slavery, but tlie State of Ohio has prohibited the existence 
of slaves within its borders.* Thus thé traveller who 
floats down the current of the Ohio, to the spot where 
that river falls into the Mississippi, may be said to sail be- 
tween libertv and servitude ; and a transient inspection 
of surrounding objects will convince him which of the 
two is more favorable to humanity. 

Upon the left bank of the stream, the population is 
sparse, — from time to time, one descries a troop of 
slaves loitering in the half-desert fields ; the primeval 
forest reappears at every turn ; society seems to be asleep, 
man to be idle, and nature alone offers a scene of activ- 
ity and hfe. 

From the right bank, on the contrary, a confused hum 
is heard, wliich proclaims afar the presence of industry; 

• Not only is BlsTcry prohibited in Ohio, bat no ftto Negroc» are [iroie] 
•Jlowed to cnlcT iho tcmwr; oC vtiaX State, or to hold properly in it. 



' &gt; 



PRESENT ASD FUTUBE CONDITION 07 THE NEGROES. 465 

the fields are covered with abundant harvests ; the elegance 
of the dwellings announces the taste and activi^ of the 
laborers ; and man appears to be in tlie enjoyment of that 
wealth and contentment which is the reward of labor,* 

The State of Kentucky was founded in 1775, the State 
of Ohio only twelve years later ; but twelve years are 
more in America than half a centur)* in Europe ; and, at 
the present day, the population of Ohio exceeds that of 
Kentucky by two hundred and fifty tliousand souls.f 
These different effects of slavery and freedom may read- 
ily be understood ; and they suffice to explain many of 
the differences which we remark between the civilization 
of antiquity and that of our own time. 

Upon the loft bank of the Ohio, labor b confounded 
with the idea of slavery, while upon the right bank, it ia 
identified with that of prosperity and improvement ; on 
the one side, it is degraded, on the other, it b honored ; 
on the former territory, no white laborers can be found, 
for they would be afraid of assimilating tliemselves to the 
Negroes, — all the work is done by slaves ; on tlio latter, 
no one is idle, for the white population extend their activ- 
ity and intelligence to every kind of employment. Thus, 
the men whose task it is to cultivate the rich soil of Ken- 
tucky are ignorant and apathetic ; whilst those who are 
active and enlightened either do nothing, or pass over into 
Ohio, where they may work without shame. 

■ The activity of Ohio is not confiacd to individnali, but the nndertalLingi 
of the Stale ore surpmingi; great : a canal hai been cstabllslicd between 
Lake Eric and the Ohio, bj means of vrfaich the vallej of Iho Mississippi 
eommnnicatcB with iho river of the North, and the Enropoan commodici«« 
whirh arrive at New Torfc maj be forwarded bjr water to New Orlcam 
arross Ave handred leagues of continent. 

t The exact numbers given by the ccnem of 1830 were: Kentucky, 
688,844 ; Oliio, 937,679. [The disproportion has tieoome vastly greater. 
Id 18S0, the papulation of Kenlncky was 9B3,40S ; of Ohio, 1,980,329 ; 
their areas are rcspcctiveij 37,680 aad 39,9C4 square miles. — An. Ed.1 
20 • mi 



463 DEMOCRACY m AIIEBICA. 

It is true tliftt, in Kentucky, the planters are not obliged 
to pay the slaves wliom tliey employ ; but they derive 
small profits from their labor, whilst the wages paid t« 
free workmen would be returned with interest in the valae 
of their services. The free workman is paid, but he docs 
his work quicker than the slave ; nud rapidity of execution 
is one of tlie great elements of economy. The white sells 
his scr^-ices, but they are only purchased when they may 
be useful ; the black can claim no remuneration for his toil, 
but the expense of his maintenance is perpetual ; ho must 
be supported in his old age as well as in manhood, in his 
profitless infancy as well as in the productive years of 
youth, in sickness as well as in health. Paj-mcnt most 
equally be made in order to obtain the services of either 
class of men : the free workman receives his wages in 
money ; the slave in education, in food, in care, and in 
clothing. The money which a master spends in the main- 
tenance of his slaves goes gradually and in detail, so that 
it is scarcely perceived ; tlie salary of the free workman 
is paid in a round sum, and appears to enrich only him 
who receives it ; but in the end, the slave has cost more 
than the fi^e servant, and liis labor is less productive.* 

• Indqrendentlj of these cause», which, wherever (ree workmen abooud, 
render ihcir t&gt;bor more prodacdvc and more economical tlian that of ilavei^ 
anoiher cbdso may be pointed ont which ia pcculinr lo tlio United State» ; 
(he sngar-cnae has hitherto been cultivated with saccess only npon tlie bonki 
of the Mississippi, near the month of that river in tlic Gulf of Mexico. In 
LooliiatiB, the coltivatioil of the so^r-canc is cxcccdiagly lacrotivc ; nowhere 
docs a laborer earn so much bj his work ; and, at there is alwars a certain 
relation between the com of production and the value of tlie produce, tbe 
price of slaves is very high id Looirâana. Bat Louisiana is one of the con- 
federate States, and «lavea may bo carried tliilber from nil parts of tha 
Union ; the price given for staves in New Orleans eonscqucnity raises the 
ralne of slaves in all the other markcta. The contoinence of this h, tluu, in 
(he cooniries where the land is less prodnctivc, the cost of slave-labor is aEQl 
veiy considerable, which gives au addiiional advantage to the competition of 
flee labor. 



PRESENT AND FUTURE CONDITION OF THE NEGROES. 467 

The influence of slavery extends still fiirther : it aflects 
the character of the master, and imparts a peculiar ten- 
dency to his ideas and tastes. Upon both banks of the 
Ohio, the character of the inhabitants is enterprising and 
energetic ; but this vigor is very diflPerently exercised in 
the two States. The white inhabitant of Ohio, obliged 
to subsist by his own exertions, regards temporal prosper- 
ity as the chief aim of his existence ; and as the coimtry 
which he occupies presents inexhaustible resources to his 
industry, and ever-varying lures to his activity, his acquis- 
itive ardor surpasses the ordinary limits of human cupid- 
ity : he is tormented by the desire of wealth, and he boldly 
enters upon every path which fortune opens to him; he 
becomes a sailor, a pioneer, an artisan, or a cultivator, with 
the same indifference, and supports with equal constancy 
the fatigues and the dangers incidental to these various 
professions ; the resources of his intelligence are astonish- 
ing, and his avidity in the pursuit of gain amounts to a 
species of heroism. 

But the Kentuckian scorns not only labor, but all the 
undertakings which labor promotes ; as he lives in an idle 
independence, his tastes are those of an idle man ; money 
has lost a portion of its value in his eyes ; he covets wealth 
much less than pleasure and excitement ; and the energy 
which his neighbor devotes to gain, turns with him to a 
passionate love of field sports and military exercises; he 
delights in violent bodily exertion, he is familiar with the 
use of arms, and is accustomed from a very early age to 
expose his life in single combat. Thus slavery not only 
prevents the whites from becoming opulent, but even from 
desiring to become so. 

As the same causes have been continually producing 
opposite effects for the last two centuries in the Bridsh 
colonics of North America, they have at last established 
a striking difference between the commercial capacity of 



46S DEMOCRACY DI AUEBICA. 

the inhabitants of the South and those of the North. At 
the present day, it is only the Nortliern State» which ai-e in 
possession of sluppiog, manufactures, i:iiitroads, aiid canals. 
This (lifterence is perceptible, not only in comparing the 
Morlh with the South, but in comparing tlie several South- 
em States. Almost all those who carry on commercial 
operations, or endeavor to turn slave labor to account, in 
the most southern districts of the Union, have emigrated 
from the North, The natives of the Norlliem Status arc 
constantly spreading over that portion ef the American 
territory, where they have less to fear from competition ; 
Q they discover resources there wliîch escaped the notice of 

l!?^ tlio udiabilants ; and, as they comply with a system ivhich 
I^V they do not approve, they sncceed in turning it to better 

■antage Uian those who first founded, and who still 
maintain it. 

AVere I inclined to continne this parallel, I could easily 
prove that almost all the differences which may be re- 
marked between the characters of the Americans in the 
Southern and in the Northern States have originated in 
slavery; but this would divert me from my subject, and 
my present intention is not to point out all the consequen- 
ces of servitude, but those effects wliich it has produced 
upon the material prosperity of the countries wliieh have 
admitted it. 

The influence of slavery upon the production of wealth 
must have been very imperfectly known in antiquity, ,aa 
slaverj' then obtained throughout the civilized world ; and 
the nations which were unacquainted with it were barba- 
rians. And, indeed, Christianity only abolished slavery by 
advocating the claims of the slave ; at the present time, it 
may be attacked in the name of the master i and, upon this 
point, interest is reconciled with morali^. 

As these truths became apparent in the United States, 
ffUveiy receded before the progress of experience. Servi- 



'T^-^.^^^ mai 



PRESENT AND FUTURE CONDITION OF THE NEGROES. 469 

tude had begun in tlie South, and had thence spread to- 
ward the North ; but ît now retires again. Freedom, 
which started from the North, now descends uninter- 
ruptedly toward the South. Amongst the great States, 
Pennsylvania now constitutes the extreme limit of slavery 
to the North ; but, even within those limits, the slave 
system is shaken : Maryland, which is immediately below 
Pennsylvania, is preparing for its abolition ; and Virginia, 
which comes next to Maryland, is already discussing its 
utility and its dangers.* 

No great change takes place in human institutions, with- 
out involving amongst its causes the law of inheritance. 
When the law of primogeniture obtained in the South, 
each family was represented by a wealthy individual, who 
was neither compelled nor induced to labor ; and he was 
surrounded, as by parasitic plants, by the other members 
of his family, who were then excluded by law from sharing 
the common inheritance, and who led the same kind of 
life as himself. The same thing then occurred in all the 
Ëunilies of the South which still happens in the noble 
families of some countries in Europe, namely, that the 
younger sons remain in the same state of idleness as 
their elder brother, without being as rich as he is. This 

« 

* A peculiar reason contributes to detach the two last-mentioned States 
from t}ie caose of slavery. The former wealth of this part of the Union was 
principally derived from the cultivation of tobacco. This cultivation is spe- 
cially carried on ^y slaves ; but within the last few years, the market-price 
of tobacco has diminished, whilst the value of the slaves remains the same. 
Thus the ratio between the cost of production and the value of the produce 
is changed. The inhabitants of Maryland and Virginia are therefore more 
disposed than they were thirty years ago to give up slave-labor in the culti- 
vation of tobacco, or to give up slavery and tobacco at the same time. 

[It is liardly necessary to remind the American reader that the text here 
was Written nearly thirty years ago, and was a tolerably accurate description 
of the state of affidrs then, though circumstances have greatly changed 
since. — Am. Ed.] 



I 



470 DEUOCBACT IN AUEBICÀ- 

îdt-'iitital result seems to be produced in Europe and in 
America by wholly analogous causes. In the South of 
the Unitod States, the whole race of whites formed an 
arbtocratic body, headed hy a certain nmnbor of privi- 
leged individuals, whoso wealth was pormonunt, and whose 
leisure was hereditary. These Icatlers of Uie American 
nobility kept aiive the traditional prejudices of the white 
race in the body of which they were the representatives, 
and maintained idleness in honor. This aristocracy con- 
tained many who were poor, but none who would work ; 
its members preferred want to labor ; consequently, Negro 
laborers and slaves met with no competition ; and, what- 
ever opinion might be entertained as to the utihty of their 
)iiilii~irv, il was necessary to employ them, since tliere was 
uu one cioD Lu work. 

No sooner was the law of primogeniture aboUshed, than 
fortunes began to diminish, and all the ikmilies of the 
country were simultaneously reduced to a state in which 
labor became necessary to existence, — several of them 
have since entirely disappeared, — and all of them learned 
to look forward to the time when it would be necessary 
for every one to provide for his own wants. Wealthy 
individuals are still to be met with, but they no longer 
constitute a compact and hereditary body, nor have they 
been able to adopt a line of conduct in which they could 
persevere, and which they could infuse into all ranks 
of society. The prejudice which stigmatized labor was, 
in tile Erst place, abandoned by common consent, the 
number of needy men was increased, and the needy were 
allowed to gain a subsiatence by labor without blushing 
for their toil. Thus, one of the most immediate conse- 
quences of the equal division of estates has been, to create 
a class of free laborers. As soon as competition began 
between the free laborer and the slave, the inferiority of 
the latter became manifest, and slavery was attacked in 



PRESENT AND FUl'UBE CONDITION OF THE NEGBOES. 471 

its fundamental principle, which is, the interest of the 
master. 

As slavery recedes, the black population follows its ret 
rograde course, and returns with it towards those tropical 
regions whence it originally came. However singular thia 
feet may at first appear to be, it may readily be explained. 
Although the Americans abolish the principle of slavery, 
they do not set their slaves free. To illustrate this remark, 
I will quote the example of the State of New York. In 
1788, this State prohibited the sale of slaves within its 
limits, which was an indirect method of prohibiting the 
importation of them. Thenceforward the number of Ne- 
groes could only increase according to the ratio of the 
natural increase of population. But eight years later, a 
more decisive measure was taken, and it was enacted that 
all children born of slave parents after the 4th of July, 
1799, should be free. No increase could then take place, 
and, although slaves still existed, slavery might be said to 
be abolished. 

As soon as a Northern State thus prohibited the impor- 
tation, no slaves were brought from the South to be sold in 
its markets. On the other hand, as the sale of slaves was 
forbidden in that State, an owner could no longer get rid 
of his slave (who thus became a burdensome possession) 
otherwise than by transporting him to the South. But 
when a Northern State declared that the son of the slave 
should be bom free, the slave lost a large portion of his 
market-value, since his posterity was no longer included 
in the bargain, and the owner had then a strong interest in 
transporting him to the South. Thus the same law pre- 
vents the slaves of the South from coming North, and 
drives those of the North to the South. 

But there is another cause more powerful than any 
I have described. The want of free hands is felt in a 
in proportion as the number of slaves decreases. B 




472 DEMOCRACT D&lt; AIIEBICA. 

proportion as labor is pei-formed by free bantb, slavolabor 
becomes less productive ; aud tbe slave is tlien a nsi^loss or 
ODcroua pnaaeaaioii, whom it is impartant to export to the 
Soutli, where tlie same competition is not to bi3 fL-untii. 
Tims tlie alxtlition of slavery does not set the Uave free, 
but merely transfers him to another master, and &amp;Dm llie 
North to the South. 

The emancipated Negrutt», and tltose boni ittler tbe eho- 
lition of slavery, do not, indeed, migrate from llie North lo 
the South; but their situation. with regaixi to the Euro- 
peans is not unlike that of the Indians; tbi'y remain bxlf 
ci%'iliïed, and deprived of their rights in the midst of a 
population which is far superior to them in wealth and 
knowletlge, where they are exposed to tlie lyranuy oi' the 
laws* and the intolerance of the people. On some ac- 
counts they are still more to be pitied than the Indians, 
since they are haunted by the reminiscence of slavery, and 
they cannot claim possession of any part of tlie soil : many 
of them perish miserably,f and the, rest congregate in the 
great towns, where they perform the meanest offices, and 
lead a wretched and precarious existence. 

But even if the number of Negroes continued to increase 
as rapidly as when they were still in slavery, as the num- 
ber of whites augments with twofold rapidity after the abo- 
iidon of slavery, the blacks would soon be, as it were, lost 
in the midst of a strange population. 

* Tho Stutca ia wliich slaictj is abolished usually do what (be; can to 
render tlieir tcmtoiy disagreeable to the Negroes as a place of reaidcnce ; 
auil as a kind of emulation exists between tbe dificrcDl States in this respect, 
the unhappy blacks can only choose tho least of the evik which beset them. 

t There is a great difiurcncc betvreea tlio morlalilj of the blacks and of 
tho whiles in tho States in which slavery is abolished; from 1820 to 1831, 
only one oat of fortj-two individuals of Ûie wliitc papulation died in Pliil&gt;- 
delphia; but oue out of twenty-one of the black population died in tho same 
tàaw. Tho mortality is by no means so great amongst tho Negroes wltt an 
Êtill slaves. (See Emeison'a Medical Stattstirs, p. Ï8.) 



PBESENT AND FUTURE CONDITION OF THE NEGROES. 478 

A district which Ls cultivated by slaves is in general less 
populous than a district cultivated by free labor : moreover, 
America is still a new country, and a State is therefore not 
half peopled when it abolishes slavery. No sooner is an 
end put to slavery, than the want of free labor is felt, and 
a crowd of enterprising adventurers immediately arrive 
from all parts of the country, who hasten to profit by the 
fresh resources which are then opened to industry. The 
soil is soon divided amongst them, and a &amp;mily of white 
settlers takes possession of each portion. Besides, Euro- 
pean emigration is exclusively dire&lt;;ted to the free States ; 
for what would a poor emigrant do who crosses the Atlan- 
tic in search of ease and happiness, if he were to land in 
a country where labor is stigmatized as degrading ? 

Thus the white population grows by its natural increase, 
and, at the same time, by the immense influx of emigrants ; 
whilst the black population receives no emigrants, and is 
upon its decline. The proportion which existed between 
the two races is soon inverted. The Negroes constitute a 
scanty remnant, a poor tribe of vagrants, lost in the midst 
of an immense people who own the land ; and the presence 
of the blacks is only marked by the injustice and the hard- 
ships of which they are the victims. 

In several of the Western States, the Negro race never 
made its appearance ; and in all the Northern States, it is 
rapidly declining. Thus the great question of its future 
condition is confined within a narrow circle, where it be- 
comes less formidable, though not more easy of solution. 
The more we descend towards the South, the more diffi- 
cult does it become to abohsh slavery with advantage ; and 
this arises from several physical causes which it is impor- 
tant to point out. 

The first of these causes is the climate : it is well known 
that, in proportion as Europeans approach the tropics, la- 
bor becomes more difficult to them. Many of the Amcrir 



474 DEïiocBAcr m America. 

catis evi-n assert tliat, willùn a certain latitude, ît ia &amp;tal to 
tlierii, wliile tlie Negroes can work there without danger ; • 
but I do not thiak t1ia.t this opinion, which is so fiivoratile 
to the indolence of the înhalâtants of the South, ts «in- 
firniL'd by oxirerieiicc. Tlio southern parts of the Union 
are not hottor limn the joulli of ludy and of Spain ; f «"d 
it may be asked why ihe European cannot work as weli 
thera aa in the latter two countries. If slavery has been 
abolished in Italy and in Spain, witliout causing the de- 
struction of the masters, why should not the same thing 
take place in the Union? I cannot believe that Nature 
has prohibited the Europeans in Georgia and the Floridas, 
under pain of death, from raising the means of subsistence 
from the soil ; but their labor would unquestionably be 
more irksome and less productive ^ to them than to the in- 
habitants of New England. As the free workman thus 
loses a portion of hb superiority over the slave in the 
Southern States, there are fewer inducements to abolish 
slavery. 

All the plants of Europe grow in the northern parts rf 
the Union ; the South has special productions of its own. 
It has been observed that slave labor is a very expensive 

' This il tnie of the apati in wliich rice ii cuMvated ; rice-gioDndf, which 

■re nnwholcMinio &lt;a bU coaniriM, are puticnUrlf dangerooï in thow region 
irliii'h ore exposed to the lœanis of a tropical ma. Europciuii \tou1i1 not 
find it cosy to cnltivatc the «oil in that put of the New World, if it must 
Deccssuril J be made to produce rice ; but may tbej not subsist withoat ric«- 
gtonniUt 

t Those Stales an) ueaier to the equator than Icalj and Spain, but th« 
tacnperatura of the continent of America it much lower ttian that of Eo- 

} The Spanish goremmeut foimerij caused a ceitain number of pcaaanu 
from iho Azores to be transported into a district of Louisiaiui called Atiaka- 
pas, b/ waj of experiment These sctllcra «till cnltirale the soil without 
Ihe agaiacanca of slaves, but their industry is so tangnid ai scarcely to tup- 
ply their most necctur; vaiUa. 



FBE5ENT ASD PUTUB£ COKDITIOH OF THE NEQEOES. 475 

method of cultivating cereal grain. The &amp;rmer of com- 
land, in a countty where slavery ia unknown, habitually 
letaioa only a small number of laborers in his service, and 
at seed-time and harvest he lures additional hands, who 
only hve at his cost for a short period. But the agricul- 
turist in a slave state is obliged to keep a large number of 
slaves tlie whole year round, in order to sow his fields and 
to gather in his crops, although their services are required 
only for a few weeks ; for slaves are unable to wait till 
they are hired, and to subsist by their own labor in the 
mean time, like &amp;ee laborers ; in order to have their ser- 
vices, they must be bought. Slavery, independently of its 
general disadvantages, is therefore still more inapplicable to 
countries in which com is cultivated, than to those which 
produce crops of a different kind. The cultivation of to- 
bacco, of cotton, and especially of the sugaiw^ane, demands, 
on the other hand, unremitting attention : and women and 
children are employed in it, whose services are of little use 
in the cultivation of wheat. Thus slavery is naturally 
more fitted to the countries from which these productions 
are derived. 

Tobacco, cotton, and the gugarK:ane are exclusively 
grown in the South, and they form the principal sources 
of the wealth of those States. If slavery were abolished, 
the inhabitants of the South would be driven to this altera 
native: they must either change their system of cultiva- 
tion, — and then they would come into competition with 
the more active and more experienced inhabitants of the 
North; or, if they continued to cultivate the same pro- 
duce without slave labor, they would have to support tlie 
competition of the other States of the South, which might 
still retain their slaves. Thus, peculiar reasons for main- 
taining slavery exist in the South which do not operate 
in the North. 

But there is yet another motive, which is i 



47( DKUOCBACr ra AHERICA. 

tka aS dw otbeis : tiie South might, indeed, rigorous!/ 
J, aboltsli slavery ; but Iiow should it riti iu teiri- 
r «f the bluck population ? Slaves and slavery are 
Aï^'wn from llie Nortli by the same law ; but tliis two- 
£'4&gt;i rMult cannot be hojWl for ïn the South. 

In proving that slavety is more nntunil and more adviw 
«t^-ous in Uie South .ihun in the North, I have shown that 
thv nuuibi.'r of slaves must be far greater in the former. 
It was to the southern setUementa that the first Africans 
wvTc brought, and it is there that the greatest number of 
ihoni liave always been imported. As we advance towards 
th« South, the prejudice wiuch sanc^uns idleness increases 
Ù1 power. In the States nearest to the tropics, there is 
nut a single white laborer ; the Negroes are consequently 
much more numerous in the South than in the? North, 
And, as I have already observed, tliis disproportion in- 
cieases daily, since the Negroes are transferred to one part 
V of the Union as soon as slavery is abolished in the other. 
Thus, tlie black population augments in the South, not 
only by its natural fecundity, but by the compulsory emi- 
gration of the Negroes from the North ; and the AGncan 
race has causes of increase in tlie South very analogous to 
those whicli accelerate the growth of the European race 
in the North, 

In the State of Maine there is one Negro in three hun- 
dred inhabitants ; In Massachusetts, one in one hundred ; 
in New York, two in one hundred ; in Pennsylvania, three 
in the same number ; in Maryland, thirty-four ; in Vir- 
ginia, forty-two ; and lasdy, in South Carolina," fifty-five 

* Wc Rnd it asserted in an Atncrian work, entitled " Lctten an tlie Colo- 
niiation Society," lij Mr. Carey, 1833, " That for tho last forty years, tlia 
black race lias increased more rapidly thnti the white rare in the State of 
Boulli Carolina; and tliat, if wo take tho average population of the fire Slatei 
of tho South into which slaves wore first introduced, viz. Maryland, Tîr- 
Ctnift, South Carolina, HoiAi CuQ^iDft., «tii Gwit^il, vre shall find that from 



, PRESENT AND FUTURE CONDITION OF THE NEGROES. 477 

per cent of the inhabitants are black. Such was the pro- 
portion of tlie black population to the whites in the year . 
1830. But thb proportion is perpetually changing, as it 
constantly decreases in the North, and augments in the 
South. 

It is evident that the most southern States of the Union 
cannot abolish slavery without incurring great dangers, 
wliich the North had no reason to apprehend when it 
emancipated its black population. 'We liave already shown 
how the Northern States made the transition from slaveiy 
to freedom, by keeping the present generation in chains, 
and setting their descendants free ; by this means, the 
Negroes are only gradually introdnced into the society ; 
and whilst the men who might abuse their freedom are 
kept in servitude, those who are emancipated may learn 
the art of l)oing free before they become their own masters. 
But it would be difficult to apply this method in the South. 
To declare that all the Negroes bom after a certain period 
shall be free, is to introduce the principle and the notion 
of liberty into the heart of slavery; the blacks whom the 
law thus mxintains in a state of slavery from which their 
children are delivered, are astonished at so unequal a fete, 
and their astonishment is only the prelude to their im- 
patience and irritation. Thenceforward slavery loses, in 
their eyes, that kind of moral power which it derived from 
time and hahit ; it is reduced to a mere palpable abuse of 
force. The Northern States had. nothing to fear from the 
contrast, because in them the blacks were few in number, 
and the white population was very considerable. But if 

1790 to 1630 the irhites haro angmented in tho proportion of 60 to 100, and 
the blacks in thot of 100 to 112. 

In the United SUttcs, in 1B30, the population of the two racct tloaà m 

States whero ilavery is abolished, 6,S65,«34 white*; 130,520 blacks. 
Slave States 3,960,814 whiles ; 2,306,103 blacks. 



478 DEHOOUdr tl ÀMÈÊtU. 

this &amp;int dawn of freedom wtta to slunr two t^HIffM ^ 
men tbeir true position, the o p p r e won wonld lum leatetf 
to tremble. After having eofnuichised the childnn of tMC 
slaves, the Eoropeans of die Soadwm States woaU «1^ 
shortlj be oUiged to extend the same benefit to tho iriiob 
black population. 

In the North, as I have alieadj remarked, s t w ofoM 
migration enanes upon the abolition of slavery, or ereh 
precedes that event when dnnmutances have rendered It 
probable ; the slaves qnit the comitry to be transported 
southwanb ; and the whites of the Northern States, as wdl 
as the emigrants fnm Enrc^ hasten to fill their place. 
But these two causes cannot operate in the same manner 
in the Southern States. On the one hand, the mass of 
slaves b too great to allow any expectation of their being 
removed from the country ; ami on the other liand, the 
Europeans and Anglo-Americans of the North are afraid 
to come to inhabit a country in wliicli labor has not yet 
been reinstated in its rightful honors. Besides, thev very 
justly look upon the States in which the number of the 
Negroes equals or exceeds that of the wliites* as exposed 
to very great dangers ; and they refrain from turning their 
activity in that direction. 

Thus the inhabitants of the South would not be able, 
while abolishing shivery, like their Northern countrj-men, 
to initiate the slaves gradually into a state of freedom; 
they Iiave no means of perceptibly diminishing the black 
population, and they would remain unsujtported to repress 
its excesses. Thus, in the course of a few years, a great 
people of fiee Negroes would exist in the heart of a white 
nation of equal size. 

The same abuses of power which now maintain slavery 
would then become the source of the most alarming perib 
to the white population of the South. At the present 
time, tliu desccndîuita of the Europeans are the sole own- 






PEESENT AND FUTUEB CONDITION OF THE NEGROES. 479 

ers of tbe land, and the abeolnte masters of all labor ; thej 
alone possess wealth, knowledge, and arms. The black is 
destitute of all these advantages, bat can subsist without 
them because he is a slave. If be were free, and obliged 
to provide for his own subsistence, would it be possible for 
bim to remain without these tilings and to support life? 
Or would not the very instruments of the present superi- 
ority of the white, whilst slavery exists, expose him to a 
thousand dangers if it were abolished ? 

As long as the Negro remiuns a slave, he may be kept 
in a condition not &amp;r removed from that of the brutes ; 
but, with his liberty, he cannot but acquire a degree of 
instruction which will enable liim to appreciate his mis- 
fortunes, and to discern a remedy for them. Moreover, 
there exists a singular principle of relative justice, which 
is firmly implanted in the human heart. Men are much 
more forcibly struck by those inequalities which exist 
within the same class, than with those which may be 
remarked between different classes. One can understand 
davery ; but how allow several millions of citizens to exist 
under a load of eternal infiiiny and hereditary wretched- 
ness ? In the North, the population of freed Negroes- 
feels tlicso hardships and indignities, but its numbers and 
its powers are small, whilst in the South it would be 
numerous and strong. 

As soon as it is admitted that the whites and the eman- 
cipated blacks are placed apon the same territory in the 
situation of two foreign communities, it will readily be 
nnderetood that there are but two chances for the future ; 
the Negroes and the whites must either wholly part, or 
wholly mingle. I have already expressed my conviction 
as to tlie latter event.* I do not believe tliat the white 

* Tliis opinion is uactioned b; antboria'cs inflnitclj weightier than anj- 
ddDg that I can taj : thu», fbr instance, it ia itatcd in tho Memoirs of Jat 
tenon, "SothiDg is mors clevlj written in the book of tlcuLa] itso. ^&amp;« 



480 DEMOCRACY IN AlfERICA. 

• 

and black races will ever live in any conntry upon an 
equal footing. But I believe the difficulty to be still 
greater in the United States than elsewhere. An isolated 
individual may surmount the prejudices of religion, of his 
country, or of his race ; and if this individual is a king, 
he may effect surprising changes in society; but a whole 
people cannot rise, as it were, above itself. A despot who 
should subject the Americans and their former slaves to 
the same yoke, might perhaps succeed in commin^ing 
their racesi ; but as long as the American democracy 
remains at the head of afiairs, no one will undertake 
so difficult a task ; and it may be foreseen that, the freer 
the white population of the United States becomes, the 
more isolated will it remain.* 

I have previously observed that the mixed race is the 
true bond of union between the Europeans and tlie In- 
dians ; just so, the Mulattoes are the true means of transi- 
tion between the white and the Negro ; so that^ wherever 
Mulattoes abound, the intermixture of the two races is not 
impossible. In some parts of America, the European and 
the Negro races are so crossed by one another, that it is 
rare to meet with a man who is entirely black, or entirely 
white : when they are arrived at this point, the two races 
may really be said to be combined, or, radier, to have been 
absorbed in a third race, which is connected with both 
without being identical with either. 

Of all Europeans, tlie English are those who have 
nuxed least with the Negroes. More Mulattoes are to be 

emancipation of the blacks ; and it is eqnally certain, that tho two races trill 
never live in a state of equal freedom under the same government, so insur- 
mountable are the barriers which nature, habit, and opinion have established 
between them." 

* If the Britisli West India planters had governed themselves, thcv would 
assuredly not have passed tho Slave Emancipation Bill which tho mother 
country has rcccnlVy im^wid u^ioii them. 



PRESENT AND rOTDBE CONDITION OF tBE SEGBOES. 481 

«een in the Soath of the Union than in the North, bat 
infinitely fewer than in any other European colony : Mu- 
lattoes are by no means numerous in the United States ; 
they have no force peculiar to themselves, and when quar- 
rels originating in différencies of color take place, they gen- 
erally side with the whites, — just as the lackeys of the 
great in Europe a^ume' the contemptuous airs of nobility 
toward the lower ordaiiB. 

The pride of ori^n, which is natural to the English, 
is singularly augmented by the personal pride which demo- 
cratic liberty fosters amongst the Americans : the white 
citizen of the United States is proud of his race, and proud 
of himself. But if the whites and tlie Negroes do not 
intermingle in the North of the Union, bow should they 
mix in the South ? Can it be supposed for an instant, that 
an American of the Southern States, placed, as he must 
forever bo, between the white man, with all his physical 
and moral superiority, and the Negro, will ever think of 
being confounded with the latter ? The Americana of the 
Southern States have two powerful passions, which will 
always keep them aloof; — the first is the fear of being 
assimilated to tlie Negroes, their former slaves ; and the 
second, the dread of sinking below the whites, Uiwr 
neighbors. 

If I were called upon to predict the future, I should say 
that the abolition of slavery in the Sonth will, in the com- 
mon course of things, increase the repugnance of the white 
population for the blacks. I found this opinion upon the 
analogous observation Ï have already made at theTTôrth. 
I have remarked that the white inhabitants of the North 
avoid the Negroes with increasing care, in proportion as 
the legal barriers of separation are removed by the legisla-' 
turc ; and why should not the same result take place in 
the South ? In the North, the whites are deterred from 
intermingling with the blacks by an ima^nary dan^i % ^ 



482 DEHOCRACT IN AUEKICA^ 

the South, where the danger would be real, I cannot 
believe that the fear would he less. 

If, on the one hand, it be admitted (and the fîict is nn- 
qnostionable") tliat tho colored population por])etiial!y acco- 
mulat* in the extreme South, and increase more rapidly 
than the whites ; and if, on the other hand, it bo allowed 
that it is impossible to foresee a lime at which the wliites 
and tlte blacks will be so intermingled as to derive the 
same benefits from society, — mnst it not bo inferred that 
the blacks and the whites will, sooner or Inter, come to 
open strife in the Southern States? But if it be asked 
what the issne of the struggle is hkely to be, it will rcadJly 
be understood that we are here left to vague conjectures. 
The human mind may succeed in tracing a wide cli-cle, as 
it were, which includes the future ; but, within that circle, 
chance rules, and eludes all our foresight. In every pic- 
ture of the future there is a dim spot which the eye of 
the understanding cannot penetrate. It appears, liowcver, 
extremely probable that, in tlie West India Islands, the 
white race is destined to be subdued, and, upon the coiiti-. 
nent, the blacks. 

In the West India Islands, tlie white planters are isolated 
amidst an immense black population ; on the continent, the 
blacks are placed between the ocean and an îiniumei-able 
people, who already extend above tliem, in a compact mass, 
from the icy confines of Canada to the frontioi-s of Vir- 
ginia, and from tlie banks of the Missouri to the shores 
of the Atlantic. If the white citizens of North America 
i-emain united, it is difficult to believe that the Negroes 
will escape the destruction which menaces thcni ; lliey 
must be subdued by want or by the swoixl. But the 
black population accumulated along the coast of ihc Gulf 
of Mexico have a chance of success, if the American Union 
should be dissolved when the struggle bctMcen the two 
races begins. The Federal tie once broken, tlic people 



PRISENT AND FUTURE CONDITION OF THE NEGEOES. 48S 

of the SoutK could not rely upon any lasting succor trom 
their Northern countrymen. The latter are well aware 
that the danger can never reach them ; and unless they 
are constrained to march to the assistance of the South by 
a positive obligation, it may be foreseen that tlie sympathy 
of race will be powerless. 

Yet, at whatever period the strife may break out, Uie 
whites of the South, even if they are abandoned to their 
own resources, will enter the lists with an immense supe- 
riority of knowledge and the means of warfare : but the 
blacks will have numerical strength and the energy of 
despair upon their side ; and these are powerful resources 
to men who have taken up arms. The fiite of the white 
population of the Southern States will, perhaps, be similar 
to that of the Moors in Spain. After having occupied 
(the land for centuries, it will, perhaps, retire by degree* 
to the country whence its ancestors came, and abandon to 
the Negroes the possession of a territory which Providence 
Lseoms to have destined for them, since they con subsist and 
llabor in it more easily than the whites. 

The clanger of a conflict between the white and the 
"black inhabitants of the Southern States of the Union — 
a danger which, however remote it may be, is inevitable — 
perpetually haunts the imagination of the Americans, like 
a painful dream. The inhabitants of the North make it a 
common topic of conversation, although directly they have 
nothing fo fear from it ; but they vainly endeavor to devise 
some means of obviating the misfortunes which they fore- 
see, III the Southern States, the subject is not discussed : 
the planter does not allude to the future in conversing with 
strangers ; he does not communicate his apprehensions to 
his friends, — he seeks to conceal them from himself. But 
there is something more alarming in the tacit forebodings 
of the South, than in the clamorous fears of the North. 

This all-pervading disquietude has given birth to UlMMÉ 



484 DEMOCRACY IK AMERICA. 

dertiking as yet but little known, but wltich may chang» 
the tnte of a portion of the human race. From appre- 
hension of the dangers which I have just described, soma 
Araericiin citizens have formed &amp; society for the purpose 
of exporting to the coa§t of Guinea, at their own expense^ 
such free Negroes as may be willing to escape Iroiii the 
oppression to which they arc subject,"" 

In 1820, the society to wliich I allude formed a settle- 
ment in Africa, upon the seventh degree of north latitude, 
which bears the name of Liberia. The most recent intelti- 
gencf informs us that two thousand five hundred Negroes 
arc collected there. They have introduced the democratic 
inatitutious of America into tlie country of llieîr fore&amp;tb- 
ers. Liberia has a rqirescnlative system of government, 
Negro juiymen, Negro mae^sirates, and Negro priests ; 
churches have been built, newspapers estabhshed, and, by 
a singular turn in the vicissitudes of the world, white men 
are prohibited from establishing themselves within the set- 
tlement, f 

This is indeed a strange caprice of fortune. Two hun- 
dred years have now elapsed since the inhabitants of Eu- 
rope undertook to tear the Negro from his &amp;mi1y and his 
home, in order to transport liim to the shores of North 
America, Now the European settlers are engaged in 
sending back the descendants of those very Negroes to 

• Tliia Bocicty assumoii the name of " Tho Society for the Coloniiarion of 
the Blicks." Sec its Aanuiil Reporla; and nioro particularly tho ftftccnth. 
See also tlio pamplilct, to wiiich allusion hai alrcaJy been niailo, cnlilled, 
"Letters OD tho Colonization Society, and od its probable Rcaulu," by Mr. 
Carey, Philadelphia, April, 1833. 

t This last regulation was hiid down by the foundtm of the scttlcinetit ; 
they apprcluindcd that a Btato of things night arise JD Africa, similar to 
that wliich exists od tho fronticra of the Onitcd States, and that if tho Ne- 
groes, tike Iho ludians, trcro brought into collision with a people mot« 
eoUghlODol than tlicmsclves, tliey would be destroyed bcfon: they could 
B» crriliied. 



nUSEMT AND PDTUBE CONDITION OF THE NEGBOES. 486 

tte conUnent whence they were originally taken : the bap- 
barons Africans have learned civilization in the midst of 
bondage, and have become acquainted with free political 
institutions in slavery. Up to the present time, Africa 
has been closed against the arts and sciences of tlie whites ; 
but the inventions of Europe will perhaps penetrate into 
those regions, now that they are introduced by Africans 
themselves. The settlement of Liberia is founded upon a 
lofty and fruitful idea ; but, whatever may be its results 
with regard to Africa, it can afford no remedy to the New 
World. 

In twelve years, the Colonization Society has transported 
two thousand five hundred Kegroes to Africa ; in the sam^ 
■pace of time, about seven hundred thousand blacks were 
bom in the United States. If the colony of Liberia 
were able to receive thousands of new inhabitants every 
year, and if the Negroes were in a state to be sent thither 
with advantage ; if the Union were to supply the society 
with annual subsidies,* and to transport the Negroes to 
Africa in the vessels of the state, — it would still be un- 
able to countci'poise the natural increase of population 
amongst the blacks ; and, as it could not remove as many 
men in a year as are bom upon its territory within that 
time, it could not prevent the growth of the evil which is 
daily increasing in the States. f The Negro race will 

* Ifor would UicM b« tbe only difficoltici attendant upon the nndertak- 
ing; if tho Union undertook to buj np the Negroct now in Amcrira, in 
ordsr to traoepoit Ihcm to Afrira, tbe price of slaves, inrrcasinf; with their 
•carcily, would aoon bocomo enormons ; and the Statca of the North would 
nerer consent to expand snch great sums for a purpose which would proAt 
them but litUo. If llie Union look posaeseion of the slaves in the Souihem 
States by force, or at a rate deCennined by law, an inturmoUDtablc rosistaUM 
would rise in that part of tbe country. Both coorsea ate eqiuttly k 

t In lesOthercwerein the United StatM 1,010,337 slaves and 313 
blacks, in all !,329,T66 Segioem : which formai dxniv oda Uûi eft "^ &gt;« 



486 DEUOCIiAGT m AUERICA. 

never leave those shores of tlie American continent to 
wbicli it was brought Ly the passions and the vices of Eu- 
ropeans ; and it will not disappear from Uie New World 
as ]ong aa it continues to exist. The inhabitants of the 
United States may retard tlie calamities which tliey nppra- 
hend, but they cannot now destroy their efGcient cause. 

I am obliged to confess that I do not regard tlie aboli- 
tion of slavery as a means of warding off the struggle of 
the two races in tlie Southern States. The Negroes may 
long remain slaves without complaining; but if they ore 
once raised to the level of freemen, they wdl soon revolt 
at being deprived of almost all their civil rightd ; and, as 
they cannot become the equals of tlje whites, tliey will 
speedily show tbemselvea as enemies. In the North, 
everything facilitated the emancipation of the slaves; and 
slaveiy was abolished without rendering the free Negroes 
formidable, since their number was too small for them 
ever to claim their rights. But such is not the case in 
the South. The question of slavery was a commercial 
and manufacturing question for the slave-owners in the 
North ; for those of the South, it is a question of life 
and death. God forbid that I should seek to justify the 
principle of Negro slavery, as has been done by some 
American writers I I say only, that all the countries 
which formerly adopted tliat execrable principle are not 
equally able to abandon it at the present time. 

When I contemplate the condition of the South, I can 
only discover two modes of action for tlie white inhab- 
itants of those States; viz. llilher to emancipate the Ne- 
groes, and to intermingle with tliem, or, renudning isolated 
Jrom them, to keep them in slavery as long as possible. 
All intermediate measures seem to me likely to terminate, 
and that shortly, in the most horrible of civil wars, and 

popnlaiioD of tlic United Slatea at tliat time. [To 1 890, the oDmben wen 
9,204,313 slaves aad A3t,4Qâ fna QQ\oTt&amp;-,V&amp;^,ï,&amp;^,B08. — Am. £d.] 




FUTURE OONDITIOS OF THE NEGROES. 487 

perhacffin the extirpatioD of one or the other of the two 
races J Such is the view which the Americans of the 
Soutuftake of the question, and they act consistently with 
it. Aa they are determined not to mingle with the N^ 
groes, they refuse to emancipate them. 

Not that the inhabitants of the South regard slavery as 
necessary to the wealtli of the planter ; on this point, 
many of tliem agree with their Northern countrymen, in 
freely admitting that slavery b prejudicial to their inter- 
esta ; but they are convinced that the removal of thb 
evil would peril their own existence. The instruction 
which is now diffused in the South has convinced the 
inhabitants that slavery is injurious to the slave-owner, 
but it has also shown them, more clearly tlian before, 
that it is almost an impossibility to get rid of it. Hence 
arises a singular contrast ; the more the utility of slavery 
is contested, the more firmly is it established in the laws ; 
and whilst its principle is gradually abolished in the North, 
that sclf-sume principle gives rise to more and more rigor- 
ous consequences in the South. 

The legislation of the Southern States with regard to 
slaves presents at the present day such unparalleled atroci- 
ties as suffice to show that the laws of humanity have 
been totally perverted, and to betray the desperate position 
of the community in wliich that legislation has been pro- 
mulgated. The Americans of this portion of the Union 
have not, indeed, augmented the hardships of slavery;, 
they have, on the contrary, bettered the physical condi- 
tion of the slaves. The only means by which the ancients, 
maintained slavery were fetters and death ; the Americans 
of the South of the Union have discovered more intellect- 
ual securities for the duration of their power. They have 
employed their despotism and their violence against the 
human mind. In antiquity, precautions were taken to pre- 
vent the slave from breaking his chains ; at the ^n 



488 DEMOGBACT IN AICEBICA. 

day, measures are adopted to deprive liim eveb of ' ilie 
desire of freedom. The ancients kept the bodies of their 
slaves in bondage;, but placed no restraint upon the mind 
and no check upon education ; and they acted consbtently 
with their established principle, since a natural termination 
of slavery then existed, and one day o!r other the slave 
might be set free, and become the equal of his master. 
But the Americans of the South, who do not admit that 
the Negroes can ever be commingled with themselves, 
have forbidden them, under severe penalties, to be taught 
to read or write ; and, as they will not raise them to their 
own level, they sink them as nearly as possible to that of 
the brutes. 

The hope of liberty had always been allowed to the 
slave, to cheer the hardships of his condition. But the 
Americans of the South are well aware that emancipation 
cannot but be dangerous, when the freed man can never 
be assimilated to liis former master. To give a man hi» 
freedom, and to leave him in wretchedness and ignominy, 
is nothing less than to prepare a future chief for a revolt 
of the slaves. Moreover, it has long been remarked, that 
the presence of a free Negro vaguely agitates the minds 
of his less fortunate brethren, and conveys to them a dim 
notion of their rights. The Americans of the South have 
consequently taken away from slave-owners the right of 
emancipating their slaves in most cases, — not indeed by 
positive prohibition, but by subjecting that step to various 
formalities which it is difficult to comply with. 

I happened to meet with an old man, in the South of 
the Union, who had lived in illicit intercourse with one 
of his Negresses, and had had several children by her, 
who were born the slaves of their father. He had, indeed, 
frequently thought of bequeathing to them at least their 
liberty ; but years had elapsed before he could surmount 
the legal obstacles to their emancipation, and in the mean 



PHESENT AND FUTUBE CONDITIOS OF THE NEGROES. 48fl 

while bis old age was come, and he waa about to die. Ha 
■pictured to himself Hb sons dragged from market to mar- 
ket, and passing from the authority of a parent to the rod 
of the stranger, until these horrid anticipations worked his 
expiring imagination into frenzy. When I saw him, he 
waa a prey to all the anguish of despair ; and I then nn* 
derstood how awful is the retribution of Nature upon those 
who have broken her laws. 

Tlieae evils are unquestionably great, but they are the 
necessary and foreseen consequences of the very principle 
of modem slavery. When the Europeans chose their 
slaves from a race differing from their own, — which 
many of, tliem considered aa inferior to the other racea 
of mankind, and any notion of intimate union with which 
they all repelled with horror, — they must have believed 
that slavery would last forever, since there is no interme- 
diate state which can be durable between the excessive 
inequality produced by servitude and the complete equal- 
ity whicli originates in independence. The Europeans did 
imperfectly feel this truth, but without acknowledging it 
even to tlicmsclves. Whenever they have had to do with 
Negroes, their conduct has either been dictated by their 
interest and their pride, or by th«r compassion. They 
first violated every right of humanity by their treatment 
of tlie Negro, and they afterwards informed him that 
those rigbta were precious and inviolable. They affected 
to open their ranks to the slaves, but the Negroes who 
attempted to penetrate into the community were driven 
back with scorn ; and they have incautiously and invol- 
untarily been led to admit freedom instead of slavery, 
without having the courage to be wholly iniquitous, or 
wholly just. 

If it be impossible to anticipate a period at which the 
Americans of the South will mingle their blood with that 
of the Negroes, can they allow ,their slaves to become frea 



490 DEIIOCEACT M AMKMCA. 

■without compromising their own security ? And if they 
are ohltged to keep that race in bondage in order to save 
tlieir own fiimilies, may they not be excused for aToîIing 
theinselvea of tlie means best adapted to that end ? The 
events whicli are taking place in the SontLem States ap- 
pear to me to be at once the most horrible and tlie most 
natural résulta of slaveiy. Wlien I see the order of nature 
ovcTibrown, and when I hear the ciy of humanity in its 
vain struggle against the laws, my indignation does not 
liglit upon the men of our own time who avq the instru- 
ments of these outrages ; but I reserve my execration for 
those who, after a thousand years of freedom, brought 
back slavfiy into the world once more. 

Wliatu'VLT maybe the fflorts of the Americans of the 
South to maintain slavery, they will not always succeed. 
Slavery, now confined to a single tract of the civilized 
earth, attacked by Christianity as unjust, and by political 
economy as prejudicial, and now contrasted with demi&gt;- 
cratic liberty and the intelligence of our age, cannot sur- 
vive. By the act of the master, or by tlie will of the 
slave, it will cease ; and, m either case, great calamitiea 
may be expected to ensue. If liberty be refused to the 
Negroes of the South, they will, in the end, forciUy 
seize it for themselves ; if it be ^ven, they will, erelong, 
abuse it. 



CHAHCE5 OF DUBATION OF TEE UNION. 



What makos the prepoodciant Force lio in tho Sûtes rnlbcr thaa in tb« 
Uiiion. — Tlu Union will last only u long as all the Staisa chooM to 
bcloDg to it. — Caiitca which tend to ke«p tbom anitcd. — Ulilitj of tba 
Union to icaiat foreign Eacmica, and to cxclado Foreigncn from Amer- 
ica. — No aaCural Barriers bctnecn tt^e scTcral States. — No conflictinf* 
Interests to divide ilicm. — Reciprocal latcreita of the Hortheni, Soncli- 
ertl, and Western Slates. — Intellectual Ties of Union. — Unifbrmitj of 
Opinions. — Dangers of the Union reanlling from the diSfcrent Charae- 
tcTB and tho Passion; of its Citizens. — Character of tho Citizens in the 
Sooth and in the North. — Tho rapid Growth of tho Union one of iia 
greatest Danger». — 'Progreaa of the Popalation to tho Northwest. — 
Power gravitates in tho same Direction. — Passions originating from 
sudden Turns of Fortune. — ^Wliotl^er the cjtisliiç Government of the 
Union tends lo gain Strength, or to lose it. — Various Signs of lis !)*• 
crease. — Internal Improvements. — Waste Lands. — Indiana. — The 
Bank. — The TarilT. — General Jackson. 

The maintenance of the existing institutions of tlie sev- 
eral States depends in part upon the maintenance of tlie 
Union itself. We must therefore first inquire into the 
probable fete of the Union. One point may be assumed 
at once : if the present confederation were dissolved, it 
appears to me to be incontestable that the States of which 
it is now composed would not return to their original iso- 
lated condition, but that several Unions would then be 
formed in the place of one. It is not my intention to in- 
quire into the principles upon which these new Unions 
would probably be established, but merely to show what 
the causes are which may effect the dismemberment of the 
existing confederation. 

With tliis object, I shall be obliged to retrace some of 
the steps which I have already taken, and to revert to 
topics wliich I have before discussed. I am aware that 
the reader may accuse me of repetition, but the impor- 
tance of the matter which still remaios to \i% \x«a.\K)^'^ '^^ 



492 DEHOCRjicnr « à 

excuse : I had rallier say too much, tlian not be thoronglil/ 
understood ; and I prefer injuring tha author to sighting 
the subject. 

Tlie legislators who formed the Comtitntioo of 1786 
endeavored to confer a separate existence and superior 
strength npon flie federal power. But they were con- 
fined by the conditions of the task which they had under- 
taken to pci'fonn. They were not appointed to constitute 
ttic government of a single people, but to regulate the 
association of several Slates ; and, whatever their inclina- 
tions might be, they could not but ivide tlie exercise of 
sovereignty. 

In order to understand the consequences of this division, 
it is necessary to make a short distinction between the 
iiitictiuiis of guvenimeiit. Tiiere are sumo objecta «bich 
are national by their very nature, — that is to say, which 
affect the nation as a whole, and can only be intrusted 
to tlie man or tlie assembly of men who most completely 
represent the entire nation. Amongst these may be reck-, 
oned war and diplomacy. There are other objects which 
are provincial by their very nature,' — that is to say, which 
only affect certain localities, and which can only be prop- 
erly treated in that locahty. Such, for instance, is the 
budget of a municipality. Lastly, tliere are objects of 
a mixed nature, which are national inasmuch as they affect 
all the citizens who compose the nation, and which are 
provincial inasmuch as it is not necessary that the nation 
itself should provide for them all. Such are the rights 
which regulate the civil and political condition of tlie citi- 
zens. No society can exist without civil and political 
rights. These rights, therefore, interest all the citizens 
alike; but it is not always necessary to the existence and 
the prosperity of the nation that these rights should bo 
'mtiform, nor, consequently, that they should be regulated 
Igr the central auUiorit^. 



CHAMCES OF DUEATIOS OF THE UNION. 498 

There are, tlien, two distinct categories of objects which 
arc submitted to the sovereign power; and these are found 
in all well-constituted communities, whatever may be tb» 
basis of the political constitution. Between these two 
extremes, the objects which I have termed mixed may be 
considered to lie. As these are neither exclusively national 
nor entirely provincial, the care of them may be given to 
a national or a provincial government, according to the 
agreement of the contracting parties, without in any way 
impairing the object of association. 

The sovereign power is usually formed by the union 
of individuals, who compete a people; and individual 
powers or collective forces, each representing a small 
fraction of the sovereign, are the only elements which are 
founa under the general government. In this case, the 
general government is more naturally called upon to regi&gt;- 
late, not only those afïairs which are essentially national, 
but most of those which I have called mixed ; and the 
local governments are reduced to that small share of 
sovereign authority wliich is indispensable to their welL- 
being. 

But sometimes the sovereign authority is composed of 
pre-organized political bodies, by virtue of circumstances 
anterior to their union; and, in this case, the provincial 
governments assume the control, not only of those affaira 
which more peculiarly belong to them, but of all or a part 
of the mixed objects in question. For the confederate na- 
tions, which were independent sovereignties before their 
union, and which still represent a considerable share of 
the sovereign power, have consented to cede to the gen- 
eral government the exercise only of those rights wliich 
are indispensable to the Union. 

When the national government, independently of the 
prerogatives inherent^ in its nature, is invested with the 
right of regulating the mixed objects of Kov^xrâ^j^v'iw 



494 DIlMOCfiACT IK AKCRICA. 

possesses ft prcpondrrant infliience. Not only are its own 
nfi]it!i «•xbMisivp, but all the rights which it does not po»- 
•raf exist br its sufTcraiK'c ; and it is to bo fi-aivd that the 
urovinrkl porermo«nts maj he dcprii-ed by it of tiieir 
natural «n&lt;l m-iiesMiry prerogatives. 

Wlwn, on tin- other hand, the proi-încial govemmcnts 
atv in\T.'«tcd with the power of n.'piilntinK tliaw samo a£~ 
ttÎK rf «oiiwJ interest, an oppwiie tendi^iU'v provaila in 
Wvktr. Th« prepondorant fi&gt;rrc resides in the pl■o^^nce, 
Ik4 in tho nation ; and it nuiy be apprehended tliat the 
national government may, in the end. be stripped of the 
privili&gt;}?w which are necessary to iu existence. 

Sinj^ nation* have therefore a natnral tendency to cen- 
IntUnilion, and confederations to dismemberment. 

It now remains to apply thene gontral princijiles to the 
American Union. The several States necessarily retained 
the right of regulating all purely provincial affairs. Mop&amp;- 
(rt-cr, these same States kept the rights of determining the 
civil and political competency of the citizens, of regulating 
the reciprocal relations of the members of the community, 
and of dispensing justice, — rights which are general in 
their nature, but do not necessarily appertain to the na- 
tional government. We have seen that the government 
of the Union is invested with the power of acting in the 
name of the whole nation, in those cases in which the na- 
tion has to appear as a single and undivided power; as, 
for instance, in foreign relations, and in offering a common 
resistance to a common enemy ; in short, in conductjng 
those affairs which I have stjled exclusively national. 

In this division of the rights of sovereignty, the share 
of the Union seems at first sight more considerable than 
that of the States, but a more attentive investigation shows 
it to be less so. The undertakings of the government of 
the Union are more vast, but it has less frequent occasion 
to act at all. Those of the provincial governments are 



CHANCES OP DURATION OF THE UNION. 495 

comparatively small, but they are incessant, and they keap 
alive the authority which they represent. The govern- 
ment of the Union watches over Ae general interests of 
the country ; but the general interests of a people have bnt 
a questionable influence upon mdividual happiness, whilst 
provincial iaiterests produce an immediate effect upon the 
welfiire of the inhabitants. The Union secures tlie inde- 
pendence and the greatness of the nation, which do not 
immediately affect private citizens ; but the several States 
maintain the liberty, regulate the rights, protect tlie for- 
tune, and secure the life and the whole future prosperity, 
of eveiy citizen. 

The Federal government is far removed from its sub- 
jects, whilst the provincial governments are within the 
reach of them all, and are ready to attend to the smallest 
appeal. The central government has upon its side the 
passions of a few superior men who aspire to conduct it ; 
but upon the side of the provincial governments are the 
interests of all those second-rate individuals who can only 
hope to obtain power within their own State, and who 
nevertheless exercise more authority over tlie people be- 
cause they arc nearer to them. 

The Americans have, therefore, much more to hope and 
to fear from the States than from the Union ; and, accord- 
ing to the natural tendency of the human mind, they are 
more likely to attach themselves strongly to the fonner 
than to the latter. In this respect, their habits and foel- 
higs harmonize with their interests. 

When a compact nation divides its sovereignty, and 
adopts a confederate form of government, the traditions, 
the customs, and the manners of the people for a long time 
struggle against the laws, and give an influence to the cen- 
tral govcniincnt which the laws forbid. But wlien a num- 
ber of confederate states unite to form a single nation, the 
Bime causes operate in an opposite direction. I have ua 



496 SiBMOCEACT IK AMEBIGÂ, 

doabt that, if France were to become a confederafte tépà^ 
lie like that of the United States, the gover nm ent wooU 
flt'&amp;rftt be more energetic thfli that of the Union ; and if 
the Union were to alter its constitatioii to a monarchy fib 
that of France, I think that the American gorenmHiit 
wonld long remain weaker than the French. When the 
national existence of the An^o-Amerifeans b^an, their 
provincial existence was already of IcHig standing : neces- 
sary relations were estaUished between the townships attd 
the individnad citieens of the same States ; and they weMr 
accostomed to consider some objects as common to am 
all, and to conduct other affidrs as exclusively relaling t» 
dieir own special interests. 

The Union is a vast body, which presents no definite 
object to patriotic feeling. The forms and limits of the 
state are distinct and circumscribed, since it represents 
a certain number of objects which are familiar to the citi- 
zens, and dear to them all. It is identified with the soil ; 
with the right of property and the domestic affections; 
with the recollections of the past, the labors of the pres- 
ent, and the hopes of the fixture. Patriotism, then, which 
is frequently a mere extension of individual selfishness, is 
still directed to the State, and has not passed over to the 
Union. Thus, the tendency of the interests, the habits, 
and the feelings of the people is to centre political activity 
in the States in preference to the Union. 

It is easy to estimate the different strength of the two 
governments, by remarking the manner in which they ex- 
ercise their respective powers. Whenever the government 
of a State addresses an individual or an assembly of indi- 
viduals, its language is clear and imperative, — and such is 
also the tone of the Federal government when it speaks 
to individuals ; but, no sooner has it anything to do with 
a State, than it begins to parley, to explain its motives and 
justify its conduct, to argue, to advise, -and, in short, any* 



CHANCES OF DUBATION OF THE UNION. 497 

thing but to command. If doubts are raised as to the 
limits of the constitudonal powers of either government, 
the provincial government prefers its claim with boldness, 
and takes prompt and energetic steps to support it. Mean- 
while the government of the Union reasons ; it appeals to 
the interests, the good sense, the glory of the nation ; it 
temporizes, it negotiates, and does not consent to act until 
it is reduced to the last extreÉiitj. At first sight, it might 
readily be imagined that it is the provincial government 
which is armed with the authority of the nation, and that 
Congress represents a single State. 

The Federal government is, therefore, notwithstanding 
the precautions of those who founded it, naturally so weak, 
that, more than any other, it requires the free consent of 
the governed to enable it to subsist. It is easy to perceive 
that its object is to enable the States to realize with fiicilily 
their determination of remaining united ; and, as long as 
this preliminary condition exists, it is wise, strong, and 
active. The Constitution fits the government to control 
individuals, and easily to surmount such obstacles as they 
maj- be inclined to offer, but it was by no means established 
with a view to the possible voluntary separation of one or 
more of the States from the Union. 

If the sovereignty of the Union were to engage in 
a struggle with that of the States, at the present day, its 
defeat may be confidently predicted ; and it is not probable 
that such a struggle would be seriously undertaken." As 

* The e^vat «trn^rgle vhich la now going on (ISS2), and a greater one U 
nowhere recorded in history, proTea that U. de Tocqnerillo overlooked one 
gnat obataclo to (ho dismemberment of the Union. This is found in tha 
■troag attachment of the remaining tnembera of the federation, who rcain 
to the death the attempt of thoir sister State» to withdraw, lirat, bcranse tha 
orignal compact bctiroen them made no provision for such withdrawal oxc^ 
bj the Toluniary consent of the greater number; and secondly and chieHv, 
because the remaining Slates, who are the large mtyotit?, are not willing to 
•Uow tliD inteieats, the power, and the glory of all (o bo ut^û&amp;ai&amp;'o'; 'iub vdh 



498 DEMOCBACY IN AMEBICA, 

often as a steady resistance is offered to the Federal go^ 
eminent, it will be found to yield. Experience has hJtb- 
erto shown tliat, whenever a State has dcmaiidtid anything 
with perseverance and reaoluùon, it has invariably sno- 
ceeded ; and that, if it has distinctly refused to act, it was 
left to do as it thought fit." 

But even if the government of the Union had any 
strength inherent in itself, the physical situation of the 
country would render the exercise of that strength very 
difficult. t Tlie United States cover an immense territory, 
they are separated fVotn each other by great distances, and 
the population is disseminated over the surface of a conn- 
try which la atill half a wilderness. If the Union were 
to undertake to enforce by arms the allegiance of the 
confederate States, it would be in a position Tery analo- 
gous to that of England at the time of tlie war of in- 
dependence. 

However strong a government may be, it cannot eanly 
escape fi:om the consequences of a principle which it has 
&gt;once admitted as the foundation of its constitation. The 
^Union was formed by the voluntary agreement of the 
States ; and these, in uniting together, have not forfeited 
their nationality, nor have they been reduced to the con- 

of a few. They thus »ct in strict acconlain* wiUi their own npnblinn prio- 
dple, that the wiU of the majoritj, duly aBocrtaincd and cxpiVBsed io die 
manDer and under the limitaiioiis proscribed by the Constitution, bIuU b« 
tlie nltiniAte and Bupremc law, from which there con be no appeal. And thii 
determination ihey »re now manifestiag with a unaoimily and energy gnch 
•B no natisa haa ever before shown in defence ofita (^OTomment. — An. En. 
• See the oandnct of the Northern Sute» in the war of 1812. "During 
1^ war," says Jeflênon in a letter to General Lafayette, " fonr of the EiM- 
cm States were only attached to the Union like so many inanimate bodiet lo 

t The profbnnd peace of the Union aObrds no pretext lor a irtanding army ; 
d wilboot B atanding anny, a goTemment ii not prepared fo profit by a 
o conqoer résistance, and take the eOTCteign power by 



CHAMCES or DURATION OF THE UNION. 499 

âidon of one and the same people. If one of the States 
chose to nithdraw its name from the contract, it would 
be difficult to disprove its right of doing so,* and the 
Federal government would have no means of maintaining 
its claims directly, either by force or by right. In order 
to enable the Federal government easily to conquer the 
resistance which may be oâered to it by any of its sub- 
jects, it would be necessary that one or more of them 
should be specially interested in the existence of the 
Union, as has frequently been the case in the history 
of confederations. 

If it be supposed that amongst the States which are 
united by the Federal tie there are some which exclusively 
enjoy the principal advantages of union, or whose prosper- 
ity entirely depends on the duration of that union, it is 
unquestionable that they will always be ready to support 
the central government in enforcing the obedience of the 
others. But the government would then be exerting a 
force not derived from itself, but frwm a principle contrary 
to its nature. States form confederations in order to de- 
rive equal advantages from their union ; and in the case 
just alluded to, the Federal government would derive 
its power from the unequal distribution of those benefits 
amongst the States, 

If one of the confederate States have acquired a prepon- 
derance sufficiently great to enable it to take exclusive pos- 
session of the central authority, it will consider the other 
States as subject provinces, and will cause its own suprem- 
acy to be respected under the borrowed name of the sov- 
ereignty of the Union. Great things may then be done 
in the name of the Federal government, but, in reality, 

* It il (non);'' '"''* '" '*T ''&gt; i^P'Tt tlwt the opinion of Our {jreatcst law- 
men and natcamcn, lùniticd by repeated jndgmoDta of the Sapreme Coiii% 
il, diM B 8iate ha« no right under the ConitimtioD roloniBril; to Mceds 
&amp;om tba IFnion. — Am. Ed. 



^0 DEIIOCRACT IM ASŒUCA. 

that goveratnent w31 liave ceased to exist.* In both these 
CBac«, tlio power nhicli acts in the namu of the coiitèdeia- 
tion becomes stronger tlie more it abandons the natural 
ataie and tiie acknowledged principlos of confederations. 

In Aincrica, the existing Union is advantageous to all 
the States, but it is not indispensable to any one of them. 
Several of them might break the Federal tie without com- 
promising the welfiire of the others, although the sum of 
their joint prosperity would be less. As the existence and 
the happiness of none of the States ai-e wholly dependent 
on the present Constitution, they would none of tliem be 
disposed to make great personal sacrifices to maintain it. 
On the other hand, there is no State which seems hitherto 
to have its ambition much interested in the maintenance 
of the existing Union. They certainly do not all esoR'ise 
the same influence in the Federal councils-; but no one 
can liope to domineer over the rest, or to treat them as 
its inferiors or as its subjects. 

It appears to me unquestionable, that, if any portion of 
the Union seriously desired to separate itself from the other 
States, tliey would not be able, nor indeed vrould they 
attempt, to prevent it ; and that the present Union will 
only last as long as the States which compose it choose 
to continue members of the confederation. If this point 
be admitted, the question becomes less difBcult ; and our 
object is, not to inquire whether the States of the existing 
■Union are capable of separating, but whether they will 
choose to remain united. 

Amongst the various reasons which tend to render the 
existing Union useful to the Americans, two principal 
ones are especially evident to tlie observer. Although the 

* Thus the provinca of Holland, in the republic oT the Loir Coantrios, sad 
■be Emperor in tho Germanic Confederation, ham aotncdmei pot thenuelvn 
in the place of (ho Union, oni] have employed the federal anthOTttjr to tlraii 
own sdvanuge. 



CHANCES 01 DUBATION OF THB UNION. 601 

Americans are, as it were, alone upon their continent, ctmi- 
merce gives them for neighbors all thi; nations with which 
they trade. Notwithstanding their apparent isolation, then, 
the Americans need to be strong, and they can be strong 
only by remaining united. If the States were to split, 
they would not only diminish the strength which they now 
have against foreigners, but they would soon create foreign 
powers upyn their own territory. A system of inland cus- 
tom-houses would then be established ; the valleys would 
be divided by imaginary boundary lines ; the courses of 
the rivers would be impeded, and a midtitude of hin- 
drances would prevent the Americans from using that vast 
continent which Providence has given them for a dominion. 
At present, they have no invasion to fear, and consequently 
□o standing armies to maintEun, no taxes to levy. If the 
Union were dissolved, all these burdensome things would 
erelong be required. The Americana are, then, most 
deeply interested in the maintenance of their Union. On 
the other hand, it is almost impossible to discover any 
private interest which might now tempt a portion of the 
Union to separate from the other States. 

When we cast our eyes upon the map of the United 
States, we perceive the chain of the Alleghany Mountains, 
runniug from the northeast to the southwest, and cross- 
ing nearly one thousand miles of country ; and we are led 
to imagine that the design of Providence was to raise, be- 
tween the valley of the Mississippi and the coasts of the 
Atlantic Ocean, one of those natural barriers wliich break 
the mutual intercourse of men, and form the necessary 
limits of different States. But the average height of the 
Alleghanies does not exceed 2,500 feet. Their rounded 
summits, and the spacious valleys which they enclose with- 
in their passes, are of easy access in several directions. 
Besides, the principal rivers which fall into the Atlantic 
Ocean, the Hudson, the Susquehanna, and the Patam&amp;R.^ 



502 UEuocBAa' m ameuca. 

take tlit-ir rise bcyood iLe Allégeâmes, in an open elevated 
plain, which biirJera upun the vallej' of the Mi&amp;&amp;iââippi. 
Tliese stream» quit this tract of counlrj", mako tljeir way 
tlirough die barrier wliich would aeem to turn them west- 
waixl, and, as they wind through the mountains, open as 
easy and natural {)as3age to roan. 

No natural barrier divides tlie n^ons whidi arc now 
inhabited by tlie Anglo-Americans; tlie Alleghanies are 
BO ùr from separating nations, that they do not even divide 
different States. New York, Pennsylvania, and Vii^gioia 
comprise them within their borders, and extend us much 
to the west as to tlie east of the line. 

The territory now occupied by the twenty-four States 
of the Union, and tlie three great districts which have not 
yet acquired the rank of States, although they already 
contain inbabitanLs, covers a surface of 1,002,600 square 
miles," which is aboul equal to five times the extent of 
France. Within these limils the quality of the soil, 
the temperature, and the produce of the country, are ex- 
tremely various. The vast extent of territory occupied hy 
the Anglo-American republics has given rise to doubts as to 
the maintenance of their Union. Here a distinction muat 
be made ; contrary interests sometimes arise in the differ^ 
ent provinces of a vast empire, which often terminate in 
open dissensions ; and the extent of the country is then 
most prejudicial to the duration of the state. But if the 
inhabitants of these vast regions are not divided by con- 
trary interests, the extent of the territory is favorable to 

• See Darliy'B View of the XJiutcd Slatet, p. 435. [In 1B60 the nnmher 
of Slalcs hfti inrreiBed to 34 ; the popolation to 31,000,000, and the anm of 
the Sûtes. 3.1 S9,000 «|n»re rail». — EnglUh TraiiJaior'M Ni^] [And no* 
IhU the United Slates comprise a Taat region bordering- on the PadSc Ocean, 
the Hockf Mountains, and the barren and moancainous coonti; adjacent n 
them, form a great oaiural barrier between the eaalcm and «eMeni poitiom 
of the Union. — Aa. En.) 



1 



CEANCES OF DUBATION OF THE UNION. 50S 

tfaeir prosperity ; for tlie nni^ of the government prc^ ^ 
motes the interchange of the different productions of the 
soil, and increases their value by &amp;cihating their con- 
somption. 

It is indeed easy to discover different interests in the 
different parts of the Union, bnt I am unacquainted with 
any which are hostile to each other. The Southern States 
are ahnost exclusively agricultural. The Northern States 
are more peculiarly commercial and manufecturing. The 
States of the West arc, at the same time, agricultural and 
manufacturing. In the South, the crops consist of tobacco, 
rice, cotton, and sugar ; in the North and the West, of 
wheat and maize : these are diffèrent sources of wealth ; 
but union is the means by which these sources are opened 
and rendered equally advantageous to all. 

The North, wliich ships the produce of the Anglo- 
Americans to all parts of the world, and brings back the 
produce of the globe to the Union, is evidently interested 
in maintaining the confederation in its present condition, 
in order that the number of American producers and con- 
sumers may remain as large as possible. The North is the 
most natural agent of commanication between the South 
and the West of the Union on the one hand, and the rest 
of the world upon the other ; the North ia therefore inters 
ested in the union and prosperity of the South and the 
West, in order tliat they may continue to furnish raw ma^ 
terials for its manufactures, and cargoes for its shipping. 

The South and the West, on their side, are still mor» 
directly interested in the preservation of the Union and 
the prosperity of the North. The produce of the South 
is, for the moat part, exported beyond seas ; the South and 
the West consequently stand in need of the commercial 
resources of the North. They are likewise interested in 
the maintenance of a powerful fleet by the Union, to pro- 
tect them efficaciously. The South and the Wo&amp;tVjK^^^^ 



504 DEMOCBAOY IN AJIEBICA. 

vessels, but willingly contribute U&gt; tLe expense of a nxTj, 
for if tilt; flcfts of Europe were to blockade tlie ports of 
the Suutli and the delta of the Mississippi, wliat wunid 
becoino of the rice of the Carolinas, the tobacco of Vif- 
^ni», and the sugar and cotton which grow in the valley 
of tlie Mississippi ? Every portion of the Federal budget 
does, therefore, contribute to the maintenance of material 
interests which are common to all the citiitédentte States. 

Indojiendently of this commercial utility, the Soutli 
the West derive great political advantages from their uni 
with each other and with the North. The South eoni 
an enonnoos slave population, — à population wliich b 
ready alarming, and still more formidable for the tiitm 
The States of the West occupy a single valley ; the rivers 
which intersect their territory rise in the Rocky Mountains 
or in the Alleghanies, and &amp;11 into the Mississippi, which 
bears them onwards to the Gulf of Mexico. The Western 
States are consequently entirely cut off, by their position, 
from the traditions of Europe and the civilization of the 
Old World. The inhabitants of the South, then, are in- 
duced to support the Union in order to avail themselves 
of its protection against the blacks ; and the inhabitants of 
the West, in order not to be excluded from a free commu- 
nication with the rest of the globe, and shut up in the wilds 
of central America, The North cannot but desire the 
maintenance of the Union, in order to remain, as it now 
is, the connecting link between that vast body and the 
other parts of the world. 

The material interests of all the parts of the Union are, 
then, intimately connected ; and the same assertion holds 
true respecting those opinions and sentiments which may 
be termed the immaterial interests of men. 

The inhabitants of the United States talk much of their 
attachment to their country ; but I confess that I do not 
rely upon that calcul&amp;lm^ ^^.triotism. which .is founded 



lerial 



v^ . '^^^^1 



CHANCES OF DUKATION OF THE UKIOH. 606 

npon interest, and wMch &amp; change in the interests may 
destroy. Kor do I attach mach importance to the lan- 
guage of the Americans, when they manifest, in their diuly 
conversation, the intention of maintaining tlie Federal sys- 
tem adopted by their fore&amp;thers. A government retains 
its sway over a great number of citizens far less by the 
voluntary and rational consent of the multitude, than by 
that instinctive, and to a certain extent involuntary, agree- 
ment which results from similarity of feelings and resem- 
blances of opinion. I will never admit that men constitute 
a social body simply because they obey the same head and 
the same laws. Society can only exist when a great num- 
ber of men consider a great number of things under the 
same aspect, when they bold the same opinions upon many 
subjects, and when the same occurrences suggest the some 
thoughts and impressions to tlieir minds. 

The observer who examines what is passing in the 
United States upon this principle, will readily discover 
that tlieir inhabitanlfi, though divided into twenty-four 
distinct sovereignties, still constitute a single people i and 
he may perhaps be led to tliink that the Anglo-American 
Union is more truly a united society than some nations of 
Europe which hve under the same legislation and the same 
prince. 

Although the Anglo-Americans have several religions 
sects, they all regard relî^on in the same manner. They 
are not always agreed upon the measures which are most 
conducive to good government, and they vary upon some 
of the forms of government which it is expedient to adopt j 
but they are unanimous upon the general principles which 
ought to rule human society. From Maine to the Flor- 
idas, and from the Missouri to the Atlantic Ocean, the 
people are held to be the source of all le^timate power. 
The same notions are entertained respecting liberty and 
equali^, the liberty of the press, the right of aâsocia.tù:s&amp;^ 



506 DEUOCKACT IN AMERICA. 

the jury, and the responaibili^ of the agents of govem- 
ment. 

If we torn from their political and religious opinions to 
tlie moral and pbilosopliical principles which regulate the 
daily actions of life, and govern their conduct, we still find 
the same uniformity. The Aiiglo-Americana • acknowl- 
edge the moral authority of the reason of the community, 
as they acknowlodge tlie political authority of the mass of 
citizens ; and they hold tliat public opinion is the surest 
arbiter of what is lawful or forbidden, true or false. The 
majonty of them believe that a man, by following his own 
int^^rest rightly understood, will be led to do what is just 
and good. They bold that every man is bom in posses- 
sion of the right of self-government, and that no one has 
the right of constmining Iiis felloiv-creatures to be happy. 
They have all a lively feith in the perfectibihty of man ; 
they judge that the difiiision of knowledge must necessa- 
rily be advantageous, and the consequences of ignorance 
fatal ; they all consider society as a body in a state of im- 
provement, humanity as a changing scene, in which noth- 
ing is, or ought to be, permanent; and they admit that 
what appears to them to-day to be good, may be superseded 
by something better to-morrow. I do not give all these 
opinions as true, but as American opinions. 

The Anglo-Americans are not only imited by these com- 
mon opinions, but they are separated from all other nations 
by a feeling of pride. For the last fifty years, no pains 
liave been spared to convince the inhabitants of the United 
States that they are the only religious, enlightened, and 
free people. They perceive that, for the present, their 
own democratic institutions prosper, whilst those of other 
countries fail ; bence they conceive a high opinion of thàr 

* It ia Bcarcelj Dcce^saiy for rae to obserre that, bj the enpitssion An^iy 
Ameicaia, 1 mean to designate only the great inqori^ of tbe nation ; &amp;» 
■ODU Inlated ioMiidmli, oî oaune, hold very diffiuout opinion*. 



CHANCES OF DUBATIOM OF THE UNION. 507 

superiority, and are not veiy remote from believing them- 
■elves to be a distinct species of mankind. 

Thus, the dangers which threaten the American Union 
do not originate in diversity of intereste or of opinions ; 
but in the various characters and passions of tlie Ameri- 
cans. The men who inhabit the vast territory of the 
United States are aJmost all the issue of a common stock ; 
but climate, and more especially slavery, have gradnally 
introduced marked differences between the British settler 
of the Soathem States and the British settler of the North. 
In Europe, it is generally believed that slavery has ren- 
dered the interests of one part of the Union contrary to 
those of the other ; but I have not found this to be the 
case. Slavery has not created interests in the South con^ 
trary to those of the North, bat it has modiiied the char- 
acter and changed the habits of the natives of the South. 

I have already explained the influence of slavery upon 
the commercial ability of the Americans in the South ; and 
this same influence equally extends to their manners. The 
slave is a servant who never remonstrates, and who sub- 
mits to everything without complaint. He may sometimes 
assassinate, but he never withstands, his master. In the 
South, tliere are no families so poor as not to have slaves.* 
The citizen of the Southern States becomes a sort of do- 
mestic dictator from in&amp;ncy ; tlie first notion be acquires 
in life is, that he is bom to command, and the first habit 
which he contracts is that of ruling without resistance. 
His education tends, then, to give him the character of a 
haughty and hasty man, — irascible, violent, ardent in his 
desires, impatient of obstacles, but easily discouraged if he 
cannot succeed upon his first attempt. 

* ThU is not «trictlj true. There «re mmj "poor vhites," u tbtj m 
termed, in the Soathorn Statea, vho own ao iltiea, and earn % scant; tnb- 
■Utenre b/ the labor of their hand», though tliejr labor Teiy nnwillingl;. — 
Ah, Ed. 



508 DEMOCRACY IN AMERICA. 

Tlie American of the Nortli sees uo slaves around him 
ill his cliildhooci ; he b even unattended by free serraiita, 
for hu is usually obliged to provide for his own wants. A* 
soon as he enters ibe world, tlie idea of necessity assails 
him on every side : he soon learns to know exactly the 
natnral limits of his power ; he never expects to subdue 
by foice those who withstand him ; and he knows tliat the 
surest means of obtaining the support of Ida follow-creatiires 
is to win their favor. He therefore becomes patient, reflect- 
ing, tolerant, slow to act, and persevering in his designs. 

In the Southern States, the more pressing wants of life 
are always supplied ; the inhabitants, therefore, are not 
occupied with the material cares of life, from whidi they 
are relieved by others ; and their imagination is diverted 
to more captivating and less definite objects. The Ameri- 
can of the South is fond of grandeur, luxurj-, and renown, 
of gayety, pleasure, and, above all, of idleness ; nothing 
obliges him to exert himself in order to subsist ; and as he 
has no necessary occupations, be ^ves way to indolence, 
and does not even attempt what would be useful. 

But the equahty of fortunes and the absence of slaveiy 
in the North plunge the inhabitants in those material cares 
which are disdained by the white population of the South. 
They are taught from infancy to combat want, and to place 
wealth above all the pleasures of the intellect or the heart. 
The imagination is extinguished by the trivial details of 
life ; and the ideas become less numerous and less general, 
but far more practical, clearer, and more precise. As pros- 
perity is the sole aim of exertion, it is excellently well at- 
tained ; nature and men are turned to the best pecuniary 
advantage ; and society is dexterously made to contribute 
to the welfare of each of its members, whilst individual 
selfishness is the source of general happiness. 

The American of the North has not only experience, but 
knowledge ; yet he values science not as an eniovmesnt. but 



CHAKCES OF DUBATION OF THE UNION. 509 

aa a means, and is only anxious to seize its useful applicar 
tjons. The American of ihe South Is more given to act 
upon impulse ; he is more clever, more (rank, more gener- 
ous, more intellectual, and more brilliant. The former, with 
a greater degree of activity, common sense, information, and 
general aptitude, has the characteristic good and evil qual- 
ities of the middle classes. The latter has the tastes, the 
prejudices, the weaknesses, and the magnanimity of all aris- 
tocracies, 

If two men are united in society, who have the same 
interests, and, to a certain extent, the same opinions, but 
different characters, different acquirements, and a different 
style of civilization, it is most probable that these men will 
not agree. The same remark is applicable to a socie^ of 
nations. 

Slavery, then, does not attack the American Union di- 
rectly in its interests, but indirectly in its manners. 

The States which gave their assent to the Federal c&lt;»i- 
tract in 1790 were thirteen in number; the Union now 
consists of twenty-four [thirty-four] members. The pop- 
ulation, which amounted to nearly four millions in 1790, 
had more than tripled in the space of forty years ; in 
1830, it amounted to nearly thirteen miUions." Changes 
of such magnitude cannot take place witliout danger. 

A society of nations, as well as a society of individuals, 
has three principal chances of duration, — namely, the wis- 
dom of its members, their individual weakness, and their 
limited number. The Americans who quit the coasts of 
the Atlantic Ocean to plimge into the Western wilderness 
are adventurers, impatient of restraint, greedy of wealth, 
and frequently men expelled from the States in which they 
were bom. When they arrive in the deserts, they are 

• CcniOB of 1790 . . . 3,933^28. 
&gt;• 1830 .... 13,856,165. 
» 1860 . ai,l34;Uft. 



610 DEMOCBACT IN AMERICA. 

unknown to each otiicr ; they have neither traditions, taxa- 
ily feeling, nor the force of example to cliwk their ex- 
cesses. The authority of the laws is feeble amongst them, 
— tliat of morality is still weaker. The settlers who are 
constantly peopling the valley of tlie Mississippi are, then, 
in every respect, inferior to the Americans who iiihahît 
the older parts of the Union. But they already exercise 
a great influence in its councils ; and they nrri\'e at the 
government of the commonwealtli before they have leamt 
to go»-em themselves.* 

Tlie greater the individual weakness of the contracting 
parties, the greater are the chances of tlie duration of the 
contract ; for their safety is then dependent upon their 
union. When, in 1790, the most populous of the Ameri- 
can republies did not contain 500,000 iniiabitanls,f each 
of them tèlt its own insignificance as an independent peo- 
ple, and this feeling rendered compliance with tlie Federal 
authority more easy. But, when one of the eonfederata 
States reckons, like the State of New York, two millions 
[three and a. half millions] of inhabitants, and covers an 
eittent of territory equal to a quarter of France, f it feels 
its own strength ; and, although it may stilt support the 
Union as useful to its prosperity, it no longer regarda 
it as necessary to its existence ; and, while consenting to 
continue in it, it Euma at preponderance in the Federal 
councils. The mere increase in number of the States 
weakens the tie that holds them together. All men who 
are placed at the same point of view do not look at the 
same objects in the same manner. Still less do they do 
so when tlie point of view is different. In proportion, 

* Thil [ndeed is only k temporaiy danger. I have no donbl that in time 
■ocietj will assume aa mnch etaliititj and re^larit; in the West m it hM 
llroadf done upon ihe coaet of the Atlantie Ocean. 

t Pennsylvania contained 431,373 înliabîtanM in 1790. 

t The area of the State nX '¥lv« '^o^ a tinat, 46,000 «qtiare milea. 



CHANCES OF DUBATIOK OF THE UNION. 611 

dieu, as the American republics become more numerous, 
there is less chance of their unanimity in matters of legis- 
lation. At present, the interests of the different parts of 
the Union are not at variance; but who can foresee the 
various changes of the future in a country in wliicli new 
towns are founded every day, and new States almost every 
year? 

Since the first settlement of the British Colonies, the 
number of inhabitants has about doubled every twenty- 
two years. I perceive no causes which are likely to check 
this ratio of increase of the Anglo-American population 
for the next hnndred years ; and, before that time has 
elapsed, I believe tliat the territories and dependencies of 
the United States will be covered by mora than a hundred 
millions of inhabitants, and divided into forty States. f I 
admit tliat these hundred millions of men have no dliferent 
interests. I suppose, on tlie contrary, that they are aU 
equally interested in the maintenance of the Union ; but 
I still say tliat, for the very reason that they are a hundred 
millions, forming forty distinct nations unequally strong, 
the continuance of the Federal government can only be 
a fortunate accident. 

Whatever feith I may have in the perfectibility of man, 



■ IT the population continoea to doable ever; tvon^'two jetn, m it tiM 
done for ilie Ikal two hnnilred Tear*, the number of inbabitanta in the United 
States in IBSS uill be twentj-ronr milUonB ; in 1671, fbrtj-cight millioTU ; 
and in ISOG, ninetj-six mtUioos. This mij still be ihc etac, even if the 
Una» on tlic coiitcm slope of the Borkj Mountains shoulil be found unlit for 
cnltiTation. Tlic lenilory which ii alrcsdj occapicd cui easily cootain thit 
number of inlmbttimtB. One hundred tnillioni of mon spread over the surface 
of the twculT-fuur States, and the three dependencies, which now constilote the 
Uoion, would only give T6! inhabitants to the square league ; this would be 
ftrhclon IliG menu population of France, which is I,OOG to Iho square league ; 
or of Englund, which 1,1S7 ; and it would eren be below the popolatioD of. 
Switzerland, fur that conntrf , notwithstanding its lakes 
MÛU 7S3 inhatiitaiits to tlie square league. 



uiiu to (liri.'Ct tlieir iridi'penden 
meut of tlie same (lesij^ns. 

But the graitest peril to w!i 
its iiicrt'use arisL's from the cc 
iiiterii.il forces. The distance ; 
Gulf of Mexico is more than t' 
crow fliea. The frontier of the 
the whole of this immense line 
its limits, hut more frequently e; 
the waste. It has been calculai 
evciiy yL'ur a mean distance of 
whole of this vast houndaiy. 
productive district, a lake, or ai 
tunes encountered. The advanc 
a. wliile ; its two extremities cuTV 
and, as mion as they are reumtt 
This gradual and continuous p 
race towards the Rocky Mounta: 
providcntiiJ event ; it is like a t 
batcdly, and daily driven onward 

Within this front line of cone 



CHANCES OF DUEATIOS OF THE UNION. 513 

order to take their seats in Congress, are already obliged 
to perform a journey as long as that from Vienna to Paris.* 
All the States are borne onwards at the same time in the 
patli of fortune, but they do not all increase and prosper 
in the same proportion. In the North of the Union, the 
detached branches of the Alleghany chain, extending as 
far as the Atlantic Ocean, form spacious roads and ports, 
constantly accessible to the largest vessels. But from the 
Potomac, following the shore, to the mouth of the Missis- 
sippi, the coast is sandy and flat. In this part of the 
Union, the mouths of almost all the rivers are obstructed ; 
and the few harbors which exist amongst these lagunes 
aâbrd shallower water to vessels, and much fewer com- 
mercial advantages, than those of the North. 

/This first and natural cause of inferiori^ is united to 
anotlier cause proceeding from the laws. We have seen 
that slavery, which is abolished in the North, still exists in 
the South ; anu I have pointed out its fatal consequences 
upon the prosperity of the planter himself. 

The North is therefore superior to the South both in 
commerce f and manufacture ; the natural consequence of 

* Tbe distance from Jcflbnon, tbe capital of tho State of ICuonri, to 
Wnsblngton, is 1,019 miles. 

t The folloiïing ataiements will «how the differeoce beiw«ea the commer- 
cial activilj of iho South and of the North. 

In 1830 tho lonnsgc of all Che mcrrhant-vcnctB belonging to Tîrginia, the 
two CaroUnas, and Grorgia (the four great Southern Stales), «moanted to 
ont^ S,243 torn. In l)ia same year, the tanoaga of the TCHicla of tlie Slate 
of MaesachoKtts alone amonoted to 17,333 tons. (See Legislative Docu- 
ments, Slsl CongTCM, 2d ScaaioD, No. 140, p. 314.) Thus MaaauchusetU 
had three times as much shipping u the fonr aboTC-menlioncd Statol. Nor- 
CTthcleH, the area of the State of Massachusetts is onlj 7,335 square milw, 
Bud its popnlatioD amounts to 610,014 inhabUaun ; whilst tho area of the 
tnar other States 1 have qunted is 210,000 square miles, snd their population 
3.047,767. Thus the area of the State of Massacbaaetts forms oulf OIM 
thirtieth part of tho area of the four Slates ; and its population ia hut mm 
fifth of thein. [In ISSS, the toimage of the these four Southern. &amp;&gt;u*-«i&amp; 



514 -^ DEMOCUACr IN AMERICA. 

whicli ia the mora rajiid increiise of population and wcahli 
within its bordorsj T1k&gt; States on the shores of the Atlan- 
tic Ot-ean are already lialf peopled. Most of tho laiid is 
held by an owner; and they cannot therefore receive so 
many emigrants aa the Western State!), where a boundless 
field is Btill open to industry. The valley of the Mis.'ds- 
sippi h far more fertile than the coast of the Atlantic 
Ocean, This reason, added to all tJie others, contributes 
to drive the Europeans westward, — a fact wlu'ch may be 
rigorously demonstrated by figures. It is found that the 
sum total of the population of all the United States has 
about tripled in the course of forty years. But iji the new 
States adjacent to the Mississippi, the population has in- 
creased thirty-one fold within the Mine time, 

The centre of the Federal power ia continually displaced. 
For^ years ago, the majority of the citizens of the Union 
was estahhshed upon the coast of the Atlantic, in the envi- 
rons of the spot where Washington now stands ; but the 
great body of the people ore now advancing inland and to 
the North, bo that, in twenty years, the majority will un- 
questionably be on the western side ot the Alleghatdes. 
If the Union continues, the basin of the Mississippi is evi- 
dently marked out, by its fertility and its extent, to be the 
permanent centre of the Federal government. In thirty 
or forty years, that tract of country will have assumed its 
natural rank. It is easy to calculate that its population, 

but 4,76S, while that of MasMchosetts was 33,S99.] SUvcrj i« pnjodidal 
to Che rommcrrial prosperity of the South in several diiferont waji; by di- 
miaigliing the spirit of entetprise amoagsc tlie whites, and by preventing tbem 
fitini oMainJDg the eailars whom they rcqoiiV. Sailorg ■]« ueubJIj taken 
only tmrn the lowest molu of the popolnlion. Bat in the Soulhcm State*, 
these loffest ranks are compoacd of ehiTes, and it is very diSmll to cmphty 
them at sea. They «re unable to ierte m wcH m a nhiie avw, awl i^ 
pnjheneioiu would always be entertained of their mnlinying in ihe middla 
of the ocean, or of their escapins ia the fbreign coantric* M wbkh tbej 
BÛgbt tonch. 



CHANCES OP DURATION OF THE UNION. 516 

compared with that of the coast oF the Atlantic, will then 
be, in round numbers, as 40 to 11. In a. few years, the 
States which founded the Union will lose the direction of 
its policy, and the population of the valley of the Missis 
sippi will preponderate in the Federal assemblies. 

This constant gravitation of the Federal power and in- 
fluence towards the Northwest is shown every ton years, 
wlien a general census of the population is made, and the 
number of delegates which each State sends to Congress is 
settled anew." In 1790, Virginia had nineteen representa- 
tives in Congress. This number continued to increase 
until 1813, when it reached twenty-three ; from that 
time it began to decrease, and, in 1833, Virginia elected 
only twenty-one.f During the same period, the State of 

• It niBy bo &lt;een ihal, in the «jnrae of the last ton yean (I8S0-183O), 
the poginlation of one district, at, for ioBlaiico, the Slate of Delaware, hM 
incnaucd in tlic proportion of five per cent ; whilst thai of another, oi the 
Territory of Michigan, hB£ increased 3S0 per cent. Thus the population ot 
Tirginta had nngmcniDd 13 per cent, and that of the border State of Obio 
61 per cent, in the same time. The general table of theao clianges, whicti 
is given in the National CHlcndar, it a strilting pictnro of the nncqual fortanea 
of the dittùnnt Statca. 

t It hflB just been said, that, In the course of the last lorm, the population 
of Virginia has increased 13 per cent ; and it is nceemarj (o explain how 
the numlicT of representatives for a State may decrease, when tlie population 
of ihtU Slate, (or from diminishing, is acluallj upon the increase. I lake 
the State of Vir^nla, to nhich T have already alluded, as my term of coiii- 
parieon. ,The number of representative» of Virginia in 1823 wal propor- 
tionate to the total number of tlie representative* of the Union, anil lo the 
relation which its populalioD bon: to that of the whole Union ; in 1833, the 
nambcr of representatives of Virginia was likewise proportioiuitc to the total 
number of llie representatives of Che Union, and to tlie relation which it« 
population, nngmcntcd in the coase of ten years, bore to the angmented 
population of the Union in the «omo «pace of time. The new number at 
Virginian representatives will then be to cImi old number, on the one hand, 
aa the now number of all the reprcscatalives is to the old nnmbcr ; and, od 
the other hand, at the augmentation of the population of Virginia is to Chat 
of the whole population of the coanCry. Thus, if the increase oC tï*. \«tiBr 



York ll.irtv-lliive, lui.I Olii 
Il is dm-nh to inuipii 
wiiirli is lirh i,m\ slnmj; 
weak, even if it wt-re pmvt 
nf ilic (im.' are not the cause 
&lt;if the otlier. Butfunion it 
at a lime wljen one )&gt;arty is 
is gainiii)^ itJ Tliis rapid an 
rertain States threatens the 
New York might perhaps s 
of inhuhitHfils and its forty i 
the other States in Congress, 
erful States make no attempt 
tlio danger still exists ; for t) 
poMÎbility of the act as in th 
crally mistrnst the justice ai 
Tlie States which increase les 
upon those which ore more 
and suspician. Hence arise t 
ill-defîned ablation which are 
whicli form 80 striking a co 
pro^pprity ivhich ; 



I 






CHANCES OF DUEATION OF THE UNION. 617 

by the Soath recently, ù attributable to no other cause. 
The inhabitants of Uie Southern States are, of all the 
Americana, tliose who are most interested in the main- 
tenance of the Union ; tliey would assuredly suffer moat 
from being left to themselves ; and yet tliey are the only 
ones who threaten to break the tie of confederation. It 
is easy to perceive that the South, which has given four 
Presidents — Washington, Jefferson, Madison, and Mon- 
roe — to the Union, which perceives tliat it is losing itti 
Federal influence, and that the number of its representa- 
tives in Congress is diminishing from year to year, whilst 
those of tlie Northern and Western States are increasing," 
— tlie South, which is peopled with ardent and irascible 
men, is becoming more and more irritated and alarmed. 
Its inhabitants reflect upon their present position, and re- 
member tlieir past influence, with the melancholy uneasi- 
ness of men who suspect oppression. If they discover a 
law of the Union which b not unequivocally favorabla 
to their interests, they protest agtdnst it as an abuse of 
force ; and if their ardent remonstrances are not listened 
to, they threaten to quit an association which loads them 
with burdens whilst it deprives them of the profits^ " The 
Tariff," said the inliabitants of Carolina in 1832, " enriches 
tlie North and ruins the South ; for, if this were not the 
case, to what can we attribute the continually increasing 
power and wealth of the North, with its inclement skies 
and arid soil ; whilst the South, which may be styled the 
garden of America, is rapidly decUning." • 

If the changes which I have described were gradual, so 
that each generation at least might have time to disappear 
with the onlcr of tilings under which it had lived, the 
danger would be less; but the progress of society in Amer- 
ica is precipitate, and almost revolutionary. The same 
n nliich procUimcd 



518 DuocKAcr m mmoâ; 

citizen maj bave lived to see Idb StaAa tdn ih» lead a lU 
Union, and afterwards beoome poweriiew in :f]ia Federal 
assemblies ; and an Anglo-AnMrican repvUic liae been 
known to grow as rapidly as a man, paMU^ fimun Urtfa 
and infancy to maturity in tlie oonae of thirty years. It 
most not be imagined, howeveri that the States whidi loae 
their preponderance also lose their population or their 
riches : no stop is put to their prosperity, and they even 
go on to increase more rapidly than any kingdom in 
Europe.* But they believe themselves to be impavet^ 
ished because their wealth does not augment as rapidly aa 
that of their neighbors; and they think that their power 
is lost because they suddenly come in contact with a 
power greater than their own : f thus they are more hurt 
in their feelings and their passions than in their interests. 
But this is amply sufficient to endanger the maintenance 
of the Union. If kings and peoples had only had their 
true interests in view, ever since the beginning of the 
world, war would scarcely be known among mankind. 

Thus the prosperity of the United States is the source 
of their most serious dangers, since it tends to create in 
some of the confederate States that intoxication which 
accompanies a rapid increase of fortune; and to awaken 
in others those feelings of envy, mistrust, and regret which 

• The population of a country assuredly constitntcs the first element of 
its wealth. In the ten veal's (1820-1830) daring which Virginia lost two 
of its representatives in Congress, its population increased in the proportion 
of 13.7 per cent ; that of Carolina, in the proportion of 15 per cent ; and 
that of Georgia, 15.5 per cent. But the population of Russia, which increasen 
more rapidly than that of any other European country, only augments io 
ten years at the rate of 9.5 per cent ; of France, at the rate of 7 per cent ; 
and of Europe altogether, at the rate of 4.7 per cent. 

t It must be admitted, however, that the depreciation which has taken 
place in the value of tobacco, during the last ûùy years, has notably dimin- 
ished the opulence of tlie Southern planters : but this circarastance it as in» 
dependent of the vriW o( l\ic\t I^otûv^xu bvetKten as it is of their own. 



CBANCES or DUBATION OF THE UNIOH. 519 

usually attend the loss of it. The Americans cont«in- 
plate this extraordinaiy progress with exultation ; but they 
would be wiser to consider it with sorrow and alarm. The 
Americans of the United States must inevitably become 
one of the greatest nations in the world ; their ofispring 
will cover almost the whole of North America ; the conti- 
nent which they inhabit is their dominion, and it cannot 
eecape them. What urges them to take possession of it so 
soon ? Riches, power, and renown cannot feil to be theirs 
at some future time ; but they rush upon this immense 
fortune as if but a moment remained for them to make it 
their own. 

I think that I have demonstrated, that the existence of 
the present confederation depends entirely on the contin- 
ued assent of all the confederates ; and, starting from this 
principle, I have inquired into the causes which may in- 
duce some of the Slates to separate from tlie others. The 
Union may, however, perish in two different ways : one of 
the confederate States may choose to retire from the com- 
pact, and so forcibly to sever the Federal tie ; and it is to 
this supposition that most of the remarks tliat I have made 
apply : or the authority of the Federal government may be 
gradually lost by the simultaneous tendency of the united 
republics to resume their independence. The central pow- 
er, successively stripped of all its prerogatives, and reduced 
to impotence by tacit consent, would beccmie incompetent 
to fulfil its purpose ; and the second union would perish, 
like the first, by a sort of senile imbecility. The gradual 
weakening of the Federal tie, which may finally lead ta 
the dissolution of the Union, is a distinct circumstance, 
that may produce a variety of minor consequences before 
it operates so violent a change. The confederation might 
still subsist, although its government were reduced to such 
a degree of inanition as to paralyze the nation, to cause 
internal anarchy, and to check the general prosperity of 
the country. 



520 DEMOCRACY IN AMERICA. 

After having investigated thé causes which may induce 
the Anglo-Americans to disunite, it is important to inquire 
whether, if the Union continues to subsist, their govern- 
ment will extend or contract its sphere of action, and 
whether it will become more eneigetic or more weak. 

The Americans are evidently disposed to look upon their 
condition with alarm. They perceive that, in most of the 
nations of the world, the exercise of the rights of sover- 
eignty tends to fall into a few hands, and they are dis- 
mayed by the idea that it may be so in their own country- 
Even the statesmen feel, or affect to feel, these fears ; for 
in America centralization is by no means popular, and 
there is no surer means of courting the majority than bjr 
inveighing against the encroachments of the central power. 
The Americans do not perceive that the countries in which 
tliis alarming tendency to centralization exists are inhabited 
by a single people ; whilst the Union is composed of differ- 
ent communities, — a fact which is sufficient to baffle all 
the inferences which might be drawn from analogy. I 
confess that I am inclined to consider these fears of a great 
number of Americans as purely imaginary. Far from par- 
ticipating in their dread of the consolidation of power in 
the hands of the Union, I think that the Federal govern- 
ment is visibly losing strength. To prove this assertion, I 
shall not have recourse to any remote occurrences, but to 
circumstances which I have myself witnessed, and which 
belong to our own time. 

An attentive examination of what is going on in the 
United States will easily convince us that two opposite 
tendencies exist there, like two currents flowing hi con- 
trary directions in the same channel. The Union has 
now existed for forty-five years, and time has done away 
with many provincial prejudices which wei-e at first hostile 
to its power. The patriotic feeling which attached each of 
the Americans to his own State is become less exclusive ; 



CHANCES OF DUBATION OF THE UNION. 521 

ftnd the different parts of tlie Union have become more 
amicable aa they have become better acquainted with each 
other. The post, that great instrument of intercourse, now 
reaches into the backwoods ; and steamboats have estab- 
lished daily means of communication between the different 
points of the coast. An inland navigation of unexampled 
rapidity conveys commodities up and down the rivera of 
the country. And to these facilities of nature and art may 
be added those restless cravings, that busy-mi ndedness, and 
love of pelf, which are constantly urging the American into 
active life, and bringing him into contact with his fellow- 
citizens. He crosses the country in every direction ; he 
visits all the various populations of the land. There is 
not a. province in France in which the natives are so well 
known to each other as the thii-toen milUons of men who 
cover the territory of the United States. 

Whilst the Amencans intermingle, they assimilate ; the 
differences resulting from their climate, their origin, and 
their institutions diminish ; and they all draw nearer and 
nearer to the common type. Every year thousands of 
men leave the North to settle in different j)arts of the 
Union : tliey bring with them their faith, their opinions, 
and their manners ; and as they are more enhghtened tlian 
the men amongst whom they are about to dwell, they soon 
rise to the liead of affairs, and adapt society to their own 
advantage. This continual emigration of the North to the 
Soutli is peculiarly favorable to tiie fusion of all the differ- 
ent provincial characters into one national character. The 
civilization of the North appears to be the common stand- 
ard, to which the whole nation will one day be assim^ 
Uted. 

The commercial ties which unite the confederate States 
are strengtliened by the increasing manufactures of the 
Americans ; and the union which began in their opinions 
gradually forms a part of their habits : the course of tim&amp; 



$22 UEUÙCBACr ce AMEHCA. 

has swept away the bogbear tbuo^te which haunt«fd the 
imagiuatioDS of tlic cidacna in 1789. Tlie FtKlvral power 
is not become oppressive ; it hu sot destrored the tnde- 
pendence of tlic Statea ; it his not sahjected the confeduT' 
ates to monarchical institutioiis ; and the Union has iiot 
rendcrtxl the leucr States decadent upon the larger ones. 
The conftideration has continoed to increase in population, 
in wealth, and in power. I am therefore convinced thmt 
the natural obstacles to the continuance of ttie American 
Union arc not so poweriul now as they were in 1789, and 
that the enemies of the Union are not so niunerouâ. 

And yet a careful examination of the history of the 
United States for the last forty-five years will reatUIy con- 
vince us tliat ttie Federal power is declhiing ; nor is i» 
difficult to explain the causes of this phenomenon, \\lieD 
the Constitution of 1789 was promulgated, the nation was 
a prey to anarchy ; the Union, which succeeded this con- 
cision, excited much dread and hatred, but it was warroly 
supported because it satisfied an impeiioos want. Al&lt; 
though it was then more attacked than it is now, the Fed- 
era! power soon reached the maximum of its authority, as 
is usually the case with a government which triumphs after 
having braced its strength by the struggle. At that time, 
the interpretation of the Constitution seemed to extend, 
rather tlian to repress, the Federal sovereignty ; and the 
Union offered, in several respects, tlie appearance of a 
single and undivided people, directed in its foreign and 
internal policy by a single government. But to attain 
this point the people had risen, to some extent, above 
itself. 

The Constitution had not destroyed the individuality 
of the States ; and all communities, of whatever nature 
they may be, are impelled hy a secret instinct towards in- 
dependence. This propensity is still more decided in a 
coantrj like America, in which every village forms a sort 



CHAKCE3 OF DDBATION OF THE UNIOS. 523 

of republic, accustomed to govern itself. It therefore cost 
the States an effort to submit to the Federal supremacy ; 
and all efTorta, however successful they may be, necessa- 
rily subside with the causes in which they originated. 

Aâ the Fedei-ol government consolidated its authority, 
America resumed its rank amongst the nations, peace re- 
turned to its frontiers, and public credit was restored ; con- 
fiision was succeeded by a fixed state of things, which 
permitted the full and free exercise of industrious enters 
prise. It was this very prosperity which made tlie Ameri- 
cans forget the cause which had produced it ; and when 
once the danger was passed, the energy and the patriot- 
ism which had enabled tliem to brave it disappeared from 
amongst them. DeHvered from the cares which oppressed 
them, they easily returned to their ordinary habits, and 
gave tliemselves up without resistance to their natural 
inclinations. When a powerful government no longer 
appeared to be necessary, they once more began to think 
it irksome. Everytliing prospered under the Union, and 
the States were not inclined to abandon the Union ; but 
they desired to render the action of the power which 
represented it as light as possible. The general principle 
of union was adopted, but in every minor detail there was 
a tendency to independence. The principle of confèdenir 
lion was every day more easily admitted, and more rarely 
applied ; so that the Federal government, by creating order 
and peace, brought about its own dechne. 

As soon as this tendency of public opinion began to be 
manifested externally, the leaders of parties, who live by 
the passions of the people, began to work it to their own 
advantage. The position of the Federal government then 
became exceedingly critical. Its enemies were in posse»- 
sion of the popular &amp;vor ; and they obtained the right of 
conducting its policy by pledging themselves to lessen its 
infiuence. From that time forwards, the government of tha 



624 DEMOCBÂCT IN AMERICA. 

Union, as often as ît has entered the lîsts with the govenn 
ments of the States, has almost invariably been obliged to 
recede. And whenever an interpretation of the terms of 
the Federal Constitution has been pronounced, that inter» 
pretation has generally been opposed to the Union, and 
favorable to the States.* 

The Constitution gave to the Federal government the 
right of providing for the national interests; and it had 
been held that no other authority was so fit to superintend 
the " hitemal improvements " which affected the prosper- 
ity of the whole Union ; such, for instance, as the cutting 
of canals. But the States were alarmed at a power which 
could thus dispose of a portion of their territory ; they 
were afraid that the central government would by this 
means acquire a formidable patronage witlihi their own 
limits, and exercise influence which they wislied to reserve 
exclusively to their own agents. The Democratic part}', 
which has constantly opposed the increase of the Federal 
authority, accused Congress of usurpation, and the Chief 
Maiïistrate of ambition. The central rrovernment was in- 
timidatcd bv these clamors ; and it finally acknowledjxed 
its error, promising to confine its influence for the future 
within the circle w^liich was prescribed to it. 

The Constitution confers upon the Union the right of 
trcatino; with foreign nations. The Indian tribes, which 
border upon the frontiers of the United States, had usually 
been reo-arded in this lio-lit. As lonor as these savaires con- 

* This assertion may be doubted. The only authorized iiiierjtreter of the 
Ck)nstitution is tlie Supreme Court of the United States ; and in most of tl»e 
suits before this tribunal, which have involved a question as to the limits of tlw 
Federal and the State authority, the decision has been in favor of tlic former. 
See tiie Dartmouth College case, that of Chisholm t'. Georgia, Giblwns r. Og- 
den, Ogdcn v. Saunders, the Cherokee Land case, and many others. Sor- 
erai of tlic cases which our author goes on to cite arc instances of legislative^ 
not judicial, interpretation; that is, legally they are no interj)retation at all, 
being all liable to be overruled by the Supreme Court. — Am. Ed. 



CHANCES OF DUEATION OP THE UNIOS. 525 . 

sented to retire before the civilized settlers, the Federal 
right was not contested ; but as soon as an Indian tribe 
attempted to fix its residence upon a given spot, the adja- 
cent States claimed possession of the lands, and a right of 
sovereignty over the natives. The central government 
soon recognized both these claims ; and after it had con- 
cluded treaties with the Indians as independent nations, 
it gave them up as subjects to the Ic^Iative tyranny of the 
States.» 

Some of the States which had been founded npon the 
coast of the Atlantic extended indefinitely to the West, 
into wild re^ons where no European had yet penetrated. 
The States whose confines were irrevocably fixed looked 
with a jealous eye upon the unbounded regions which were 
thus opened to their neighbors. The latter then agreed, 
with a view to conciliate the others, and to fàciUtate the 
act of Union, to lay down their own boundaries, and to 
abandon all the temtory which lay beyond thera to the 
confederation at large, f Thenceforward the Federal gov- 
. emment became the owner of all the uncultivated lands 
which lie beyond the borders of the thirteen States first 
confederated. It had the right of parcelling and selling 
them, and the sums derived from this source were paid 
into the public treasury to furnish the means of purclinsing 
tracts of land from the Indians, opening roads to the re- 

■ Sec, Id the LcgislaiiTO Docmncnts already qnoied in ipcaking of ihe 
Indiana, the letter of tlio PreBident of the United States to the Cltcrokcci, 
hii correspondcnco on tliis subject with hil agenU, and hia mcsaogca to Con- 
gnm. [In ilio cnso here referred lo, Georgia did not clajm a right of tor- 
enigntj over tl]e Indiana aa hci own subjeela, bnc only damandcd tlint they 
ahoald leave a tnut of coannr, tin Indian title Co wliirh Iho Fcdeint gor- 
ernraent had plcd(rt?il iiself lo eitingaiah. — Am. Ed.] 

t The lirat aei of ecasion waa made by the State of New York in IISO'; 
Virginia, Maasacl]nset[a, Conneetieat, South and North Carolina, followed 
thia example ac diUl^rcnC timea, and, lastly, the act of ccsaion of Georgia wia 
made aa recently aa ISOS 



— -■ w &gt;aiT„ onntoi, 

&gt;■■ ^-""V iS, nVlir of roji 
".-.V-,VIv ,„ ,|,i.i, „„.„ 
«mp nvMV and more tl 
K d&lt;l«ire II,, Union of , 

ItJ-dWlWrtoenjoyedja 
• I.W ly „|,„.l, ,1,, 

*""''"■ »l» "flMd, wa, 
"I'"""». «Itlmugl, tie la 
to Inem." 

■"«■ »l'glite« olaervatio, 
"ne to .ppre,.;,te a,e xj^, 

"™ fr°"i tfie Bant. Th 

fafd», b„, „„o „f ,j,^ .^ 

e^- Tl„ „„,„ „f ,1,^ jjf 

n","!"" "is l«»de„ „f „ 

B„l lie Ii„|, „f ,1,^ jj^._^ 

•^"■ty. I« di«.to„ „„ 



CHANCES OP DOTATION OF THE UNION. 527 

President ; and they were accused, not without probability, 
of having abused their influence to thwart his election. 
The President therefore attacked the establishment with 
all the warmtli of personal enmity; and he was encouraged 
in the pursuit of his revenge by the conviction that he was 
supported by tlie secret inclinations of the majority. The 
Bank may be regarded as the great monetary tie of the 
Union, just as Congress is the great legisladve tie ; and 
the same passions which tend to render the States indepen- 
dent of the central power contributed to the overthrow of 
the Bank. 

The Bank of the United States always held a great num- 
ber of the notes issued by the provincial banks, which it can 
at any time oblige them to convert into cash. It has itself 
nothing to fear from a similar demand, as the extent of its 
resources enables it to meet all claims. But the existence 
of the provincial banks is thus threatened, and their op- 
erations arc restricted, since they are able to issue only 
a quantity of notes duly proportioned to their capital. 
They submitted with impatience to this salutary control. 
The newspapers which they bought over, and the Presi- 
dent, whose interest rendered bim their instrument, at- 
tacked tiie Bank with the greatest vcliemence. They 
roused the local passions and the blind democratic instinct 
of the country to aid their cause ; and they asserttid that 
the Bank directors formed a permanent aristocratic body, 
whose influence would ultimately be felt in the govern- 
ment, and affect those principles of equality upon which 
society rests in America. 

The contest between the Bank and its opponents was 
only an incident in the great struggle wliieh is going on 
in America between the provinces and the central power, 
— between the spirit of democratic independence, and that 
of a proper distribution and subordination of power. I do 
not mean that the enemies of the Bank were identically 



m 

j528 Diaf OGRAOT IN iOIEBICA. 

the same individuals who, on otiher pointa, attadced Urn 
jFedend government ; bat I assert that the attacks ^Erected 
against the Bank of the United States originated in Ûê 
same propensities which militate against the Federal gov* 
emment, and jthat the very nnmerons qipcments at the 
fimner afford a deplorable symptom of the decreanug 
strength of the latter. 

. But the Union has never shown so nrach weakneai as 
on the celebrated question of the Tariff.* The wan of 
the French Revolution and of 1812 had created mann&amp;o- 
turing establishments in the North of the Union, by cut- 
ting off free communication between America and Europe. 
When peace was concluded, and the channel of intetoooise 
reopened, by which the produce of Europe was transmifc- 
ted to the New World, the Americans thought fit to estab- 
lish a system of import duties, for the twofold purpose of 
protecting their incipient manuÊictures and of paying off 
the amount of the debt contracted during the war. The 
Southern States, which have no manuÊictures to encour- 
age, and which are exclusively agricultural, soon com- 
plained of this measure. I do not pretend to examine 
here whether their complaints were well or ill founded, 
but only to recite the fiicts. 

As early as 1820, South Carolina declared, in a petition 
to Congress, that (lie Tariff was " unconstitutional, oppres- 
sive, and unjust." And the States of Georgia, Virginia, 
North Carolina, Alabama, and Mississippi subsequently 
remonstrated against it with more or less "vigor. But 
Congress, far from lending an ear to these complaints, 
raised the scale of Tariff duties in the years 1824 and 
1828, and recognized anew the principle on which it was 
founded. A doctrine was then proclaimed, or rather re- 
vived, in the South, which took the name of Nullification. 

* Sec principally, for the details of this afiàir, the Legislative Docomenti^ 
22d Congress, 2d Session, No. 30. 



CHANCES Oï DT)B,\TION OF THE UNION. 52y 

I have shown in the proper place that the object of the 
Federal Constitution was not to form a league, but to cre- 
ate a national government. Tlie Americans of the United 
States form one and the same people, in all the cases which 
are specified by that Constitution ; and u[)on tliesc pointa, 
the will of tlie nation is expressed, as it is in all constitu- 
tional nations, by the voice of the majority. When the 
majority 1ms once spoken, it is tlie duty of the minority to 
submit. Such is the sound legal doctrine, and the only 
one which agrees with the text of the Constitution, and 
the known intention of those who framed it. 

Tlie partisans of Kullification in the South maintain, 
on the contrary, that the intention of the Americans in 
uniting was not to combine tliemselves into one and the 
same people, but that they meant only to form a league of 
independent States ; and that each State, consequently, 
retdns its entire sovereignty, if not &lt;fe faeto^ at least dt 
jure, and has the right of putting its own construction 
upon the laws of Congress, and of suspending their exe- 
cution within the limits of its own territory, if tliey seem 
unconstitutional and unjust. 

The entire doctrine of Nullification is comprised in a 
sentence uttered by Vice-President Calhoun, the head of 
that party in the South, before the Senate of the United 
States, in 1833 : " The Constitution is a compact to which 
the States were parties in their sovereign capacity: now, 
whenever a compact is entered into by parties which ac- 
knowledge no common arbiter to decide in the lust resort, 
each of them has a right to judge for itself in relation to 
the nature, extent, and obligations of the instniment." It 
is evident that such a doctrine destroys the very basis of 
the Federal Constitution, and brings back the anarchy 
from which tlie Americans were delivered by the act of 
1789. 

When South Carolina perceived that Congress turned. 



630 DEHOCRAOT IH ^H*y"A- 

a deaf ear to ito remonstzancfli, it thraatmud to ^ply an 
doctrine of Nollificatioii to the Fedenl Tkriff taw. Ci»- 
grcs9 persisted in its system, and at length the stonn broke 
out. In the course of 1882, the people of Sooth Cnrolûia* 
named a national convention, to consult xxpaa ib» «xtnoF- 
dinaiy measures which remained to be taken ; End on tlw 
24th of November of the same year, this convention pn^ 
mulgated a law, under the form of a decree, which an- 
nulled the Federal kw &lt;^ the Tariff, forbade the levy of 
tbe imposts which that law commands, and refhsed to reo- 
ognizo the ^peal which nught be made to the Federal 
courts of law.f This decree was only to be put in exsca- 
tion in the euBoing month of Februaiy ; and it was hiti- 
mated that, if Congreaa modified the Tariff before that 
period, South Carolina might be induced to proceed no 
further \\-ith her menaces ; and a vague desire was niter- 
wards expressed of submitting the question to an extraor- 
dinary assembly of all the conledemte States. In the 

• That ia to mj, the miyoritf of tho people ; for iho opposiic party, 
called tho Union party, aln-ny» formed a very strong and active niinority. 
Carolina may rantain alioul 47,000 votera ; SO,O00iTcro in favor of nallificm- 
tion, and 17,000 opposed (o it. 

( Tlua Uocrco waa preceded by a Report of the Commitlcc by wliicb it 
waa framed, eonlaining llic explatialion of the motives and object of tha 
Ian-. The folloitini; passage oeeura in it (p. 34}: " Wlicn the Tii:bi( re. 
served by ibo ConBCitulion to tbc diUcrcnt States an dolibcraloly violntcd, it 
ia the duly and llio right of ihoso Slalea to inlcriere, in order to clicek lh« 
progress of the evil ; to rcaist usurpation, and to maintain, within tlicir t» 
Bpoetive limita, those powers and privili^^ which belong to llicra as indepat- 
denl, snvreiifn Stalet, If they were destilulc of thîa righl, llicy would not b* 
sovereign. South Carolina declares that she aekoowletlgcs no tribunal upon 
earth abovo her authority. She has indeed entered into a solemn compart 
of nnion with the other Slates ; bat she demands, and will exercise, the right 
of pottiDg her own conatmction upon it ; and when this compact ia violated 
bj bet dHer SIbIM, and by the govcnimcnt which they have created, slw it 
-Mnnfaiad to vrail heraelf of tho nnqucstionablo right of judging what ii 
■MMllRM^f (be in&amp;ttctioD, and «br.t are tho measures best fitted to obtain 



CHAHCES or DUBATION OP THE UNIOS. 681 

mean time, South Carolina armed her militia, and pn- 
pared for war. 

Bnt Congress, which had slighted its suppliant snhjects, 
listened to their complaints as soon as 'thej appeared with 
arms in their hands.* A law was passed, by which the 
tariff duties were to be gradually reduced for ten years, 
until they were brought so low as not to exceed the 
supplies necessary to the government. Thug Congress 
completely abandoned the principle of the Tariff, and 
substituted a mere fiscal impost for a system of protec- 
tive duties.f The government of the Union, to conceal 
its defeat, had recourse to an expedient which is much in 
vogue with feeble governments. It yielded the point de 
facto, but remained inflexible upon the principles ; and 
whilst it was altering the Tariff law, it passed another 
bill, by which the President was invested with extraor&gt; 
dinary powers, enabling him to overeome by force a resist 
anco which was then no longer to be feared. 

But South Carolina did not consent to leave the Union 
in tlie enjoyment of these scanty appearances of success: 
the same national convention which had annulled the 
Tariff bill, met again, and accepted the proffered conces- 
sion ; hut, at tlie same time, it declared its unabated per- 
severance in the doctrine of nullification ; and, to prove 
what it said, it annulled the law investing the President 
with extraordinary powers, although it was very certain 
that tlie law would never be carried into effect. 

Almost all the controversies of which I have been speak- 
ing have taken place under the Presidency of General 

• CongivM WM finally decided to take this step b/ the conduct of the 
powerfol State of Virginia, whose Lcgislatnre o&amp;èred (o acrre aï a mediator 
between the Union and South Carolina. Hitherto the latter State had ap- 
peared to be enCirclj abandoned, even bf the Slatea wbich had joined in her 



t This bill wu brought in bj Mr. Claj, and it paaaed in fbor itjs throngh 
both honaca of Congiesa, bj an iinmeoM majoritj. 



S82 DEMOCRACY IN AUUïICA. 

Jackson ; and it cjniiiot bo deiiiod that, in the question 
of tlie Tiiriff, 111- lia.t Mupportcd the righte of tlio Union 
with entT^ anil skill. I ihinlt, however, that tlic con- 
duct of lliia Prwiidt-nt of the Federal govi;niment may 
he reckoned as ouc of thtt daii^rx which threaten iu 
continuance. 

Some porsons in Europe have foriiie&lt;l an opinion of the 
influence of Oeni-rul Jackson upon the affairs of his coun- 
try wliicti uppi-iiRi highly cxtravogimt to those who have 
«een rlie nuhject nearer at hand. We have been told that 
Oetiei-al Jackson has won battles i that he is an energetic 
man, prone by nature and liaWt M the use of force, cot- 
etoua of power, and a despot by inclination. All this may 
be true ; bot the inferences which have been drawn from 
these truths are very erroneous. It baa been imagined 
that General Jackson is bent on establishing a dictatorship 
in America, introducing a military spirit, and giving a 
degree of influence to the central authority which cannot 
but be dangerous to provincial liberties. But in America 
the time for similar undertakings, and the age for men of 
this kind, is not yet come : if General Jackson had thought 
of exercising bis authority in tliis manner, he would intidli- 
hly have forfeited his political station, and compromised his 
life, — he has not been so imprudent as to attempt any- 
thing of the kind. 

Far from wishing to extend the Federal power, the 
President belongs to the party wliich is desirous of hm- 
iting that power to the clear and precise letter of the 
Constitution, and which never puts a construction upon 
that act fiivorablc to the government of the Union ; far 
from standing forth as the champion of centralization. Gen- 
eral Jackson is the agent of the State jealousies ; and he 
was placed in bis lofty station by the passions which are 
most opposed to the central government. It is by per- 
petually flattering these passions that he maintains his sta- 



CHANCES OF DUBATIOS OF THE UMON. 538 

tion and his popularity. General Jackson is the slave 
of the majority : he yields to its wishes, iti propensities, 
and its demands, — say, rather, anticipates and forestalls 
them. 

Whenever the governments of the States come into col- 
lision with that of the Union, the President is generally 
the first to question his own rights, — he almost always 
outstrips the legislature ; and when the extent of the Fed- 
eral power is controverted, he takes part, as it won, 
against himself, — lie conceals his official interests, and 
labors to diminish his own dignity. Not, indeed, that he 
b naturally weak or hostile to the Union ; for when the 
majority decided against the claims of nullification, lie put 
himself at their head, asserted the doctrines wliich the na- 
tion held distinctly and energetically, and was the first to 
recommend force ; but General Jackson appears to me, if 
I may use the American expression, to be a Federalist by 
taste and a Republican by calculation. 

General Jackson stoops to gain the favor of the major- 
ity ; but when he feels that his popularity is secure, he 
overthrows all obstacles in the pursuit of tlie objects wliich 
the community approves, or of those wliich it does not 
regard with jealousy. Supported by a power which his 
predecessors never had, he tramples on his personal ene- 
mies, whenever they cross his path, with a facility without 
example ; he takes upon himself the responsibility of meas- 
ures which no one before him would have ventured to 
attempt; he even treats the national representatives with 
a disdain approaching to insult ; he puts his veto upon the 
laws of Congress, and frequently neglects eve» to reply 
to that powerful body. He is a fiivoritc who somi'times 
treats his master roughly. The power of General Jackson 
perpetually increases, but that of the President declines ; 
in his hands, the Federal government is strong, but it will 
pass enfeebled into the hands of his succesnor. 



68é DXMOGRACT IX AMEBIQA. 

• I am fitrangelj mistaken if the Federal goyemmenl of 
ihe United States be not constantly lofflng.atrengtli» reftnriDg 
gradually from puUic aifidra, and narrowing its dide cf 
action. It is natorallj feeUe, bat it now abandons even 
the appearance of strength. On the other hand^ I thon^t 
that I remarked a more lively sense of independence, and 
a more decided attachment to their separate govemmentSi 
in the States. The Union is desired, but only as a shadow; 
they wish it to be strong in certain cases, and weak in all 
others ; in time of warfiore, it is to be able to concentrate 
all the forces of the nation, and all the resources of the 
country, in its hands ; and in time of peace, its A-Afcanr» 
is to be scarcely perceptible ; as if this alternate debility 
and vigor were natural or possible. 

I do not see anything for the present which can check 
this general tendency of opinion : the causes in which it 
originated do not cease to operate in the same direction. 
The change will therefore go on, and it may be predicted 
that, unless some extraordinary event occurs, the govern- 
ment of the Union will grow weaker and weaker every 
day. 

I think; however, that the period is still remote, at which 
the Federal power will be entirely extinguished by its ina- 
bility to protect itself, and to maintain peace in the country.' 
The Union is sanctioned by the manners and desires of 
the people; its results are palpable, its benefits visible. 
When it is perceived that the weakness of the Federal 
government compromises the existence of the Union, I do 
not doubt that a reaction will take place with a view to 
increase its strength. 

The government of the United States is, of all the Fed- 
eral governments wliich have hitherto been established, the 
one which is most naturally destined to act. As long as it 
is only indirectly assailed by the interpretation of its laws, 
and as long as its substance is not seriously impaired, a 



FBOBABLE DUBATIOM OP THE BEPUBLIC. 585 

change of opinion, an internal crisis, or a war, may restore 
all the vigor which it requires. What I have been most 
anxious to establish is simply this : Many people in France 
imagine that a change of opinion is going on in the United 
States, which is Avorable to a centralization of power in 
the hands of the President and the Congress. I hold that 
a contrary tendency may dbtinctly be observed. So &amp;r 
is the Federal government, as it grows old, &amp;om acquir- 
ing strength, and from threatening the sovereignty of the 
States, that I maintain it to be growing weaker, and that 
the sovereignty of the Union alone is in danger. Such 
are the facts which the present time discloses. The iutnre 
conceab the final result of this tendency, and the events 
which may check, retard, or .accelerate the changes I have 
described ; I do not affe^Tto be able to remove the veil 
which hides them. 



Uoion U onlj an Accident. — RepallUi;Mt Iiutinitiolit bare more Far- 
iDCDcs. — A Ropublic fbr IbB PreMDt ia the natnnl StMe of the An- 
glo-AmcricsQs. — Reason of thii. — In order to destroj it, tH the Lkwi 
ho changed at the itune Time, aod &gt; great Alteratioii take place 
in fttanncra. — Dîfficnlrïes which the Americani would experience in 
crcaliog an Ariatocracy. 

The dismemberment of the Union, by introducing war 
into the heart of those States which are now confederatoy 
with standing armies, a dictatorship, and a heavy taxation, 
might eventually compromise the fete of republican insti- 
tutions. But we ought not to confound the future pros- 
pects of the republic with those of the Union. The Union 
is an accident, which will only last as long as circumstances 
favor it ; but a republican fbnn of govevma^nX %»£q&amp; ^i;^ 




586 DEMOCBACY IN AMERICA. 

me the natural state of the Americans, which nothing but 
the continued action of hostile causes, always acting in the 
same direction, could change into a monarchy. The Union 
exists principally in the law which formed it ; one revolu- 
tion, one change in pubhc opinion, might destroy it fop- 
ever ; but the republic has a deeper foundation to rest 
upon. 

What is understood by- a republican government in the 
United States, is the slow and quiet action of society upon 
itself*. It is a regular state of things really founded upon 
the enlightened will of the people. It is a conciliatory 
government, under wliich resolutions are allowed time to 
ripen ; and in which they are deliberately discussed, and 
are executed only when mature. The rej)ublicans in the 
United States set a liigli value upon morality, respect re- 
limous belief, and acknowlediiie the existence of riijlits. 
They pn)f ess to think that a peoj)le ouglit to be moral, 
religious, antl temperate, in j)roportion as it is free. What 
is called the rei)ublic in the United States is the tranquil 
rule of the majority, which, after having had time to ex- 
amine itself, and to give proof of its existence, is the com- 
mon source of all the powers of the State. But the power 
of the majority itself is not unlimited. Above it, in the 
moral world, are humanity, justice, and reason ; and in the 
political world, vested rights. The majority i*ecognizes 
these two barriers ; and if it now and then overstep them, 
it is beeause, like individuals, it has passicms, and, like 
them, it is prone to do what is wrong, whilst it discerns 
what is riirht. 

But the demagogues of Europe have made strange dis- 
coveries. A re})ublic is not, according to them, the rule 
of the majority, as has hitherto been tliought, but the rule 
of those who are strenuous partisans of the majority. It 
is not the j)eoi)le who preponderate in this kind of govern- 
ment, but those who know what is good for the people; — 



PROBABLE DURATION OF THE BEPtlBLIC. 537 

a happy distinction, which allows men to act in the name 
of nations without consulting them, and to claim their 
gratitude whilst their rights are trampled under foot. A 
republican government, moreover, they hold, is the only 
one which has the right of doing whatever it chooses, and 
despisinfT what men have hitherto respected, from the high- 
est moral laws to the vulgar roles of common sense. It 
had been supposed, unti] our time, that despotism was 
odious, under whatever form it appeared. But it is a 
discovery of modem days that there are such things as 
legitimate tyranny and holy injustice, provided they are 
exercised in the name of the people. 

The ideas which the Americans have adopted respecting 
the republic, render it easy for them to live under it, and 
insure its duration. With them, if the republic be often 
practically bad, at least it is theoretically good ; and, in the 
end, the people always act in conformity to it. 

It was impossible, at the foundation of the States, and it 
would still be diihcult, to establish a central administration 
in America. The inhabitants are dispersed over too great 
a space, and separated by too many natural obstacles, for 
one man to undertake to direct the details of their exist- 
ence. America is therefore pre-eminently the countiy 
of provincial and municipal government. To this cause, 
which was i)lainly felt by all the Europeans of the New 
World, the Anglo-Americans added several others pecu- 
liar to themselves. 

At the time of the settlement of the North American 
Colonies, municipal liberty had already penetrated into the 
laws as well as the manners of the English, and the emi- 
grants adopted it, not only as a necessary thing, but as a 
benefit which they knew how to appreciate. We have 
ah^ady seen how the Colonies were founded: every prov- 
ince, and almost every district, was peopled separately by 
men who were strangers to each other, or were a£sQ?.à.^eÂ. 



&gt; 



S88 vmoŒAcr js 



i;i:n») 



with Tesry difierent |nii:p&lt;Mt. The 'BagaA MHkn inllft 
United States, therefore, eerij p ere c i Te d tlmi tiiejr irm 
divided into a great nunber of smaH and dutinct oooubih 
nities, which belonged to no common centre; and tint 
each ci these little communities must take care of its own 
aflBsdrs, since there was not anj central anthcri^ wfaicb 
was natnrallj bound and easilj enabled to proyide ht 
diem. Thus, the nature of the country, the manner ia 
which the British Cdooies were firanded, the halnts of tbt 
first emigrants, in short, everything, united to premots^ 
in an extraordinary degree, municipal. and provindal lib- 
erties* 

In the United States, therefiwe, the mass of the instito- 
tiens of the coontiy is essentially republican ; and, in order 
permanently to destroy the laws which form the basis of 
the republic, it would be necessary to abolish all the laws 
at once. At the present day, it would be even more diflS- 
cult for a party to found a monarchy in the United Stales, 
than for a set of men to convert France into a republic. 
Royalty would not find a system of legislation prepared 
for it beforehand ; and a monarchy would then really exist, 
surrounded by republican institutions. The monarchical 
principle would likewise have great difficulty in penetrat- 
ing into the manners of the Americans. 

In the United States, the sovereignty of the people is 
not an isolated doctrine, bearing ho relation to the prevail- 
ing habits and ideas of the people ; it may, on the con- 
trary, be regarded as the last link of a chain of opinions 
which binds the whole Anglo-American world. That 
Providence has given to every human being the degree 
of reason necessary to direct himself in the affairs which 
interest him exclusively, is the grand maxim upop which 
civil and political society rests in the United States. The 
Either of a femily applies it to his children, the master to 
his servants, tVie \owns\v\c \a \ta ofBcers^ the province to 



PROBABLE DUBATIOX 0? THE KPUBUC. 589 

îta townships, the State to the provinces, the Union to the 
States ; and, when extended to the nation, it becomes the 
doctrine of the sovereignty of the people. 

Thus, in the United States, the fundamental principle 
(^ the republic is the same which governs the greater part 
of human actions ; republican nations insinuate themselves 
into all the ideas, opinions, and habits of the Americans, 
and are formally recognized by the laws ; and, before the 
laws could be altered, the whole community must be revo- 
lutionized. In the United States, even the religion of most 
of the citizens ia republican, since it submits the truths of 
the other world to private judgment: as in politics, the 
care of their temporal interests is abandoned to the- good 
sense of the people. Thus, every roan is allowed freely 
to take that road which he thinks will lead him to heaven, 
—just as the law permits every citizen to have the right 
of choosing his own government. 

It is evident that nothing but a long series of events, all 
having the same tendency, could substitute for this conn 
bination of laws, opinions, and manners, a mass of opposite 
opinions, manners, and laws. 

If republican principles are to perish in America, they 
can yield only after a laborious social process, often inter- 
rupted, and as often resumed ; they will have many appar- 
ent revivals, and will not become totally extinct until an 
entirely new people shall have succeeded to those who now 
exist. There is no symptom or presage of the approach 
of such a revolution. There is nothing more striking to 
a person newly arrived in the United States, than the kind 
of tumultuous agitation in which he finds political society. 
The laws are incessantly chan^ng, and at first sight it 
seems impossible that a people so fidde in its desires should 
avoid adopting, within a short space of time, a completely 
new form of government. But such apprehensions are pre- 
mature ; the instability which affects pohticaL iD&amp;tita.^ï!so&amp; 



540 DFJiocRAcr nf AioiticA. 

is of two Icinda, which might tirtt in be confotmded. 
The first, which modities ftccondury laws, is not incom- 
patible with a very settled state of society. The other 
fih&amp;k(&gt;s the Very Foutidatiotis of t}i^ Constitntioii, and at- 
tacks the fundamental principles of legislation ; tilts spmcs 
of instabihty is always followed by troubles and revolu- 
tions, and the nation which sulTurs under it is in a violent 
and transitory state. 

Expérience shows that these two kinds of législative in- 
stability have no necessary connection ; for they have been 
found united or 8eparat«, according to times and clR-um- 
stanccs. The first is common îii the United Slat««, but 
not tlie second : the Americans often change their laws, 
but the ibundatious of the Constitution are resjiected. 

In our diiys, the republican principle ruk'S in America, 
as the monarchical principle did in France under Louis 
XIV. The French of that period were not only friends 
of tlie monarchy, but thought it impossible to put anything 
in its place ; they received it as we receive the rays of the 
sun and the return of the seasons. Amongst them the 
royal power had neither advocates nor opponents. In like 
manner does tlie republican government exist in America, 
without contention or opposition, without proofs or argu- 
ments, by a tacit agreement, a sort of consensu» universaH». 

It is, however, my opinion, that, by changing their ad- 
ministrative forms as often as they do, the in^iibitantâ of 
the United States compromise the stability of their gov- 
ernment. It may be apprehended that men, perpetually 
thwarted in their designs by the mutability of legislation, 
will learn to look upon the republic as an inconvenient 
form of society ; the evil resulting from the instability o£ 
the secondary enactments might then raise a doubt as to 
the nature of the fundamental principles of the Constitn^ 
lion, and indirectly bring about a revolution ; but this 



PBOBABLE DUSATION OP THE BSFUBUC. 541 

It may be foreseen even now, that, when the Americans 
lose their republican institutions, they will speedily arrive 
at a despotic government, without a long interval of lim- 
ited monarchy. Montesquieu remarked, that nothing is 
more absolute than the authority of a prince who imme- 
diately succeeds a republic, since the indefinite powers 
which had fearlessly been intrusted to an elected magis- 
trate are then transferred to an hereditary sovereign. This 
is true in general, but it is more peculiarly applicable to a 
democratic republic. In the United States, the magistrates 
ore not elected by a particular class of citizens, but by the 
majority of the nation ; as tliey are the immediate repre- 
sentatives of the passions of the multitude, and are wholly 
dependent upon its pleasure, they excite neither hatred nor 
fear: hence, as I have already shown, very little care has 
been taken to limit their authority, and they are left in 
possession of a vast deal of arbitrary power. This state 
(^ tilings has created habits which would outhve itself; tlie 
American magistrate would retain his indefinite power, but 
would cease to be responsible for it ; and it is impossible to 
say what bounds could then be set to tyranny. 

Some of our European politicians expect to see an aris- 
tocracy arise in America, and already predict the exact 
period at which it will assume the reins of government. I 
have previously observed, and I repeat it, that the present 
tendency of American society appears to me to become 
more and more democratic. Nevertheless, I do not assert 
that the Americans will not, at some future time, restrict 
the circle of political rights, or confiscate those rights to 
the advantage of a single man ; but I cannot believe that 
they will ever give the exclusive use of tliem to a privi- 
leged class of citizens, or, in other words, that they will 
ever found an aristocracy. 

An aristocratic body is composed of a certain number 
, of citizens, who, without being very &amp;r removed from, tb» 



&amp;42 DEUOCRACT IN AMERICA, 

mass of the people, are, nevertlieieM, permanent]/ aU- 
tion»! above them; — a body which it is easy to touch, 
and difficult to strike, — with which the peojJe are in 
daily oftnlnrt, hut with which they can never CAtnbine. 
Nothing can be imapned more contrary to nature and to 
the secret instincts of the human lieart, than a subjection 
of this VmA ; and men who are leil to follow tlicir own 
bent will always prefer tlie arbitrary power of a king to 
the regular administration of an aristocracy. Aristocratic 
institutions cannot subsist witliout laying down the in- 
equality of men as a tùndamental principle, legalizing it 
beforehand, and introducing it into the family as well as 
into society ; but tlieae are things so repugnajit to natural 
equity, tliat they can only be extorted from men by con- 
straint. 

I do not think a single people can be quoted, since 
human society began to exist, which has, by its own free 
will and its own exerlàons, created an aristocracy within 
its own bosom. All the aristocracies of the Middle Ages 
were founded by military conquest ; the conqueror was 
the noble, the vanquished became the serf. Inequality 
was then imposed by force ; and after it had been once 
introduced into the manners of the country, it maintained 
itself, and passed naturally into tlie laws. Communities 
have existed which were aristocratic from their earliest 
origin, owing to circumstances anterior to tliat event, and " 
wliich became more democratic in each succeeding age. 
Such was the lot of the Romans, and of the barbarians 
after them. But a people, having taken its rise in civili- 
zation and democracy, which should gradually establish 
inequality of condition, until it arrived at inviolable privi- 
leges and exclusive castes, would be a novelty in the world; 
and nothing indicates that America is likely to be the first 
to fiimish such an example. 



COMUERCIAL PBOSPEBITT OF THE DKITED STATES. 548 



ti-f 



The AmericMi» deatiiied b; Nature M be agical Maritime People. — Extent 
of their CoMla. — Depth of their Ports. — Sim of their Itiven. — The 
Commercial Superiority of the Anglo-Americans leu attributable, how- 
ever, to Physical Circamftancea, than to Hoial and latcliectual Causes. 
— Bcason of this Opinion. — Fntnie of the Anglo-Americans a» a Com- 
mercial Nation. — The DiMoIalioii of the Unioa would not check the 
Maritime Vigor of the Slat«*. — Reason of this. — Anglo-Americane will 
naturally supply the Wants of the Inhabitanli of South America. — Thej 
will become, like the English, the Factors of a great Portion of tba 
World. 

The coast of the United States, from the Bay of Ftindy 
to the Sabine River in the Gulf of Mexico, is more than 
two tliousand milee in extent* These shores form an un- 
broken line, and are all subject to the same government. 
No nation in the world possesses vaster, deeper, or more 
secure ports for commerce than the Americans. 

The inhabitants of the United States constitute a great 
civilized people, which fortune baa placed in the midst of 
an uncultivated country, at a distance of three thousand 
miles from the central point of civilization. America con- 
sequently stands in daily need of Europe. The Americans 
will, no &lt;loubt, ultimately succeed in producing or manu- 
fiicturing at home most of the articles which they require ; 
but the two continents can never be independent of each 
otlicr, so numerous are the natural ties between tlicir 
wants, their ideas, their babitSi and their manners. 

The Union has peculiar commodities which have now 
become necessary to us, as they cannot be cultivated, or 
con be raised only at an enonnous expense, upon the soil 

• It ia liarJly ncccssary lo remind the American reader that the annezft- 
Hon of Texas, and the acceiiHlon of Oregon and California on tho FaciHc, since 
&lt; M. do Tocqnovillo wrote, have made this coaat-liuo half u long agaio. — 
Am. Ed. 



544 DmocBACT in amebica. 



of Europe. The Americans consume only a small portion 
of this produce, and they are willing to sell us the rest. 
Europe ii therefore tlie market of America, as America ia 
the market of Europe ; and maritime commerce is no less 
necessary to enable the inhabitants of the United Stales to 
transport their raw materials to tlic ports of Europe, than 
it is to enable ns to supply them with our manufactured 
produce. The United States must therefore either fur- 
nish much business to other maritime nations, even if they 
should themselves renounce commerce, as the Spaniards of 
Me.xico have hitherto done, or they must become one of 
tlie first maritime powers of the globe. 

Tbe Anglo-AmL'ricans have always displayed a decided 
taste for the sea. The Declaration of Independence, by 
breaking the commercial bonds which united them to Eng- 
land, gave a fresh and powerful stimulus to thoJr maritime 
genius. Ever since that time, the shipping of the Union 
has increased almost as rapidly as the number of its inhab- 
itants. The Americans themselves now transport to their 
own shores nine tenths of the European produce which 
they consume. And they also bring three quaiters of the 
exports of the New World to the European consumer. 
The ships of the United States fill the docks of Ha\Te 
and of Liverpool, whilst the number of English and 
French vessels at New York is comparatively small. 

Thus, not only does the American merchant brave com- 
petition on his oivn ground, but even successfiilly snpporti 
that of foreign nations in their own ports. This is readily 
exjilained by the fact, that the vessels of the United States 
cross the seas at a che;iper rate. Aa long as the mercantile 
shipping of the United States preserves this superiority, 
it will not only retain what it has acquired, but will con- 
stantly increase in prosperity. 

It is difEcuIt to say for what reason the Americans can 
navigate at a lower rate Ùian. où^et Tva^o^ia \ one is at first 



COMMERCIAL PROSPERITY OF THE UNITED STATES. 646 

led to attribute this superiority to the physical advantages 
which nature gives them ; but it is not so. The American 
vessels cost almost as much to build as our own ; * they are 
not better built, and they generally last a shorter time. The 
pay of the American sailor Ls more considerable than the 
pay on board European ships, which is proved by the great 
number of Europeans who are to be found in the merchant- 
vessels of the United States. How happens it, then, that 
the Americans sail their vessels at a cheaper rate tlian we 
can ours ? I am of opinion, that the true cause of their 
superiority must not be sought for in physical advantages, 
but that it is wholly attributable to moral and intellectual 
qualities. 

The following comparison will illustrate my meaning. 
During the campaigns of the Revolution, the French 
introduced a new system of tactics into the art of war, 
which perplexed the oldest generals, and very nearly de- 
stroyed the most ancient monarchies of Europe. They 
first undertook to make shift without a number of things 
which had always been held to be indispensable in warfare ; 
they required novel exertions of their troops, which no 
civilized nations had ever thought of; they achieved great 
actions in an incredibly short time, and risked human life 
without hesitation to obtain the object in view. The 
French had less money and fewer men than their ene- 
mies ; their resources were infinitely inferior ; neverthe- 
less, they were constantly victorious, until their adversaries 
chose to imitate their example. 

The Americans have introduced a similar system into 
commerce, — they do for cheapness what the French did 
for conquest. The European sailor navigates with pru- 
dence ; he sets sail only when the weather is favorable ; 
if an unforeseen accident befalls him, he puts into port ; at 

* Materials are, generally speaking, less expensive in America than in 

Europe, bat the price of labor is much higher. 

w 



546 DEMOGRACT IN AHEBICA. 

night, hè furls a portion of his canvas ; and when £he 
whitening billows intimate the vicinity of land, he checks 
his course, and takes an observation of the sun. The 
American n^lects these precautions, and braves these dan- 
gers. He weighs anchor before the tempest is over; by 
night and by day he spreads his sheets to the wind ; 1^3 
repairs as he goes along such damage as his vessel may 
have sustained from the storm; and when he at last 
approaches the term of his voyage, he darts onward to 
the shore as if he already descried a port. The Ameri- 
cans are often shipwrecked, but no trader crosses the seas 
BO rapidly. And, as they perform the same distance in 
a shorter time, they can perform it at a cheaper rate. 

The European navigator touches at different ports in the 
course of a long voyage ; he loses precious time in making 
the harbor, or in waiting for a favorable wind to leave it ; 
and he pays daily dues to be allowed to remain there. 
The American starts from Boston to purchase tea in 
China : he arrives at Canton, stays there a few days, and 
then returns. In less than two yeare, he has sailed as far 
as the entire circumference of the globe, and has seen land 
but once. It is true that, during a voyage of eight or ten 
months, he has dinmk brackish water, and lived upon salt 
meat ; that he has been in a continual contest with the sea, 
with disease, and with weariness ; but, upon his return, he 
can sell a pound of his tea for a half-penny less than tlie 
English merchant, and his purpose is accomplished. 

I cannot better explain my meaning, than by saying that 
the Americans show a sort of heroism in their manner of 
trading. The European merchant will always find it dif- 
ficult to imitate his American competitor, who, in adopting 
the system which I have just described, does not follow 
calculation, but an impulse of his nature. 

The inhabitants of the United States experience all the 
wants and all the desires wliich result fi:om an advanced 



COMMEECIAL PBOSPEEirr OF THE UNITED STATES. 647 

civilization ; and as they are not surrounded, as in Europe, 
by a community skilfully organized to satisfy them, they 
are often obliged to procure for themselves the various arti- 
cles which education and habit have rendered necessaries. 
In America, it sometimes happens that the same person 
tUls his field, builds his dwelling, contrives his tools, makes 
his shoes, and weaves the coarse ^tuff of which his dress is 
composed. This is prejudicial to the excellence of the 
work, but it powerfully contributes to awaken the intelli- 
gence of the workman. Nothing tends to materialize man, 
and to deprive his work of the faintest trace of mind, more 
than the extreme division of labor. In a country like 
America, where men devoted to special occupations are 
rare, a long apprenticeship cannot be required from any 
one who embraces a profession. The Americans therefore 
change tltcir means of gaining a livelihood very readily, 
and they suit their occupations to the exigencies of the mo- 
ment. Men are to be met with who have successively been 
Uwyers, ^rmers, merchants, ministers of the Gospel, and 
physicians. If the American be less perfect in each craft 
than tlie European, at least there is scarcely any trade with 
■which he is utterly unacquainted. His capacity is more 
general, and the circle of his intelligence is greater. 

The inhabitants of tlie United States are never fettered 
by the axioms of tlieir profession ; they escape from all the 
prejudices of their present station ; they are not more at- 
tached to one line of operation than to another ; they are 
not more prone to employ an old method than a new one ;. 
they have no rooted habits, and they easily shake off thft 
influence which the habits of other nations might exercise: 
upon them, from a conviction that their country is unlike 
any other, and that its situation is without a precedent in 
the world. America is a land of wonders, in which every- 
thing is in constant motion, and every change seems an 
improvement. The idea of novelty is there indissolubly 



648 DEUOCRAOT m AMERICA. 

connected with the idea of amelioration. No natonJ 
boondaxy seema to be set to the efibrts of man ; and, in 
his eyes, what is not jet done is only what he has not yet 
attempted to do. 

This perpetual change which goes on in the United 
States, these frequent vicissitudes of fortune, these un- 
foreseen fluctuations in private and public wealth, serve 
to keep the minds of the people in a perpetual feverish 
agitation, which admirably invigorates their exertions, and 
keeps them, so to speak, above the ordinary level of hu- 
manity. The whole life of an American is passed like a 
game of chance, a revolutionaiy crisis, or a battle. As 
the same causes are continually in operation throughout 
the country, they ultimately impart an irresistible impulse 
to the national chai'acter. The American, taken as a 
chance specimen of his countrymen, must then be a man 
of singular warmtli in his desires, enterprising, fond of 
adventure, and, above all, of novelty. The same bent is 
manifest in all that he does : he introduces it into his polit- 
ical laws, his religious doctrines, his theories of social econ- 
omy, and his domestic occupations ; he bears it with him 
in the depth of the backwoods, as well as in the business 
of the city. It is this same passion, applied to maritime 
commerce, which makes him the cheapest and tlie quickest 
trader in tlie world. 

As long as the sailors of the United States retain these 
mental advantages, and the practical superiority which they 
derive from them, they will not only continue to supply the 
wants of the producers and consumers of their own coun- 
tr}% but they will tend more and more to become, like the 
English, the factors of other nations.* Tliis prediction has 

* It most not be supposed that English vessels are oxclosively employed 
in transporting foreign produce into England, or British produce to foreign 
countries : at the present day, tlie mcrcliant shipping of England may be 
XCIgarded in the light of a vafit system of public conveyances, ready to icrre 



COMMERCIAL PBOSPEEITT OF THE UNITED STATES. .MS 

•Iready begun to be realized ; we perceive that the Amer- 
ican traders are introducing themselves as intermediate 
agents in the commerce of several European nations ; * and 
America will offer a still wider field to their enterprise. 

The great colonies which were founded in South Amer- 
ica bj the S])aniards and the Portuguese have since become 
empires. Civil war and oppression now lay waste those 
extensive regions. Population does' not increase, and the 
thinly scattered inhabitants are too much absorbed in the 
cares of self-defence even to attempt any amelioration of 
their condition. But it will not always be so. Europe 
has succeeded by her own efforts in piercing the gloom of 
the Middle Ages. South America has the same Christian 
laws and usages as we have ; she contains all the germs of 
civilization which have grown amidst the nations of Europe 
or their oifsets, added to the advantages to be derived from 
our example : why, then, should she always remain unciv- 
ilized ? It is clear that the question is simply one of time ; 
at some future period, which may be more or less remote, 
the inhabitants of South America will form flourishing and 
enlightened nations. , 

But when the Spaniards and Portuguese of South Amer- 
ica begin to feel the wants common to all civilized nations, 
they will still be unable to satisfy those wants for them- 
selves ; as the youngest children of civilization, they must 
perforce admit the superiority of their elder brethren. ■ 
They will be agriculturista long before they succeed in 
manuiàctures or commerce ; and they will require the me- 
diation of strangera to exchange their produce beyond sea^ 
for those articles for which a demand will begin to be felt. 

It is unquestionable that the Americans of the North 



all Ibe proflarcrs of the world, and to open mmmaniimtioDa between all n». 
tiona. The maritima genius of the Amcrioni prompts them to cntei into 
competition with the Engliib. 

• Part of the commerce of the UcditeRa.iw&amp;a i» iiM»&amp;j «amsA. «tt-M 



S50 DEMOCBACT IN AMERICA. 

Tfill one day be called upon to supply tlie wanfs of t 
Amtricaua of the South. Nature iias placed tlieni in con- 
tiguity, and lias furnished the former with every means of 
knowiii}; and appreciating those demanda, of establishing 
permanent relations with those States, and gradually filling 
their markets. The merchant of the United States cotJd 
only forfeit tliese natural advantages if he were very infe- 
rior to tlie merchant of Europe ; but he is snperior to liim 
ill siîvenil respects. The Americans of the United States 
already exercise a great moral influence upon all the na- 
tions of the New World. They are tlie source of intelli- 
gence ; and all those who inhabit the same continent are 
already acoustoniwi to consider them as tlie moit enliixlit- 
ened, the most powerful, and the most wealthy members 
of the great American family. All eyes are therefore 
turned towards the United States : these are the models 
which the other communities tiy to imitate to the best of 
their power ; it is from the Union that they borrow their 
political principles and their laws. 

The Americans of the United States stand in precbely 
the same position with regard to the South Americans as 
their fathers, the English, occupy with regard to the Ital- 
ians, the Spaniards, the Portuguese, and all those nations 
of Europe which receive their articles of daily consump- 
tion from England, because they are less advanced in civil- 
ization and trade. England is at this time tlie natural 
emporium of almost all the nations which are within its 
reach ; the American Union will perform the same part 
in the other hemisphere ; and every community which is 
founded or which prospers in the New World, is founded 
and prospers to the advantage of tlie Anglo-Americans. 

If the Union were to be dissolved, the commerce of 
fhe States which now compose it would undoubtedly be 
checked for a time -, Wt \«&amp;?, ^otv tiae would tliink. It is 
endent that, whatever roa-^ \\a.ç^"£v,'i\ii liOTMaK-ti»^ %\asj«i 



FUTURE PROSPECTS OF THE UMITED STATES. 651 

wûl remain united. They are contigiious, they hare the 
same opinions, int£rests, and manners ; and they alone 
form a great maritime power. Even if the South of the 
Union were to become independent of the North, it would 
(till require the services of those States. I have already 
observed tliat the South is not a commercial country, and 
nothing indicates that it will become so. The Americans 
of the South of the United States will therefore long be 
obliged to have recourse to strangers to export their pro- 
duce, and supply them with the cocmiodities which satisfy 
their wants. But the Northern States are undoubtedly 
able to act as their intermediate agents cheaper than any 
other merchants. They will therefore retain that employ- 
ment, for cheapness is the sovereign law of commerce. 
Sovereign will and national prejudices cannot long resist 
the influence of cheapness. Nothing can be more virulent 
than the hatred which exists between the Americans of the 
United States and the English. But in spite of these 
hostile feelings, the Americans derive most of their manu- 
factured commodities from England, because England sup- 
plies them at a cheaper rate than any other nation. Thus 
the increasing prosperity of America turns, notwithstand- 
ing the grudge of the Americans, to the ad^'antage of 
British manufactures. 

Reason and experience prove that no commercial pros- 
perity can be durable if it cannot be united, in case of 
need, to naval force. This truth is as well understood in 
the United States as anywhere else: the Americans are 
already able to make tlieir flag respected ; in a few years 
they will make it feared. I am convinced that the dis- 
memberment of the Union would not have the effect of 
diminishing the naval power (rf the Americans, but would 
poweriidly contribute to increase it,* At present, the 

* This propWj hu alreadj been fulfilled in a remuVisJile nvu\T«x V) 
Ae gnat itmggh which ia now going on beWQMi Ùie 'SotÙi woà. ■Coa ï^swà». 



552 DENOCSACT HI AMEBICl- 

commercul States are connected with oibers n-liich are 
not commercial, and which unwillingly behold ihe increaw 
of ft maritime powor by which Uicy am only iudirecily 
benefiteti, If^ on the contrary, th« commercial States of 
the Union formed one and the same nation, comtnoTce 
would become tho foremost of their national interests ; 
they vroiild consequently be wiUJng to make great sacri- 
fices to ]&gt;n&gt;tect their shipping, and notliing would prevent 
them from pursuing tlieir desires upon tliîs |x»nt. 

Nations, as well as men, aliuost always betray the praii&gt;- 
inent features of their Jiiture destiny in their earliest years. 
When I contemplate the ardor witli which tlie Anglo- 
Americans prosecute commerce, the ad\antages which aid 
them, and the success of their undcrtiikings, I cannot help 
believing that they will one day become the first maritime 
power of the globe. They are bom to rule the seas, as 
^j^^the Romans were to conquer the world. 



CONCLUSIOH. 

I AH approaching the close of my inquiry : hitherto, in 
(peaking of the future destiny of the United States, I have 
endeavored to divide my subject into distinct portions, in 
order to study each of them with more attention. My 
present object is to embrace the whole from one point of 
view ; the remarks I shall make will be less detailed, but 
they will be more sure. I shall perceive each object less 
distinctly, but I shall descry the principal focts with more 
certainty. A traveller, who has just left a vast city, chmbs 
,the neighboring hill; as he goes fiirther olf, he loses »glit 
of the men whom he has just quitted ; their dwellings are 
conned in a dense mass ; he can no longer distinguish 
the public squares, and can scarcely trace out the great 
thoroughfares ; but his eye has less difficulty in following 



FUTURE PROSPECTS OP THE UNITED STATES, &amp;5S 

die boundaries of the city, and for the first time he seei 
the shape of the whole. Such is the fîiture destiny of the 
British race in North America to my eye ; the details of 
the immense picture are lost in the shade, but I conccivo 
a clear idea of the entire subject. 

The territory now occupied or possessed by the United 
States of America forms about one twentieth part of the 
habitable earth. But extensive as these bounds are, it 
must not be supposed that the Anglo-American race will 
always remain within them ; indeed, it has already gone 
far beyond them. 

There was a time when we also might have created a 
great French nation in the American wilds, to countei^ 
balance the influence of the English upon the destinies of 
the New World. France forraeriy possessed a territory in 
North America scarcely less extensive than the whole of 
Europe. The three greatest rivers of that continent then 
flowed within her dominions. The Indian tribes which 
dwelt between the mouth of the St. Lawrence and the 
delta of the Mississippi were unaccustomed to any other 
tongue than ours ; and all the European settlements sca^ 
tered over that immense re^on recalled the traditions of 
our country. Lonisburg, Montmorency, Duquesne, Saint- 
Iionis, Vincennes, New Orleans, (for such were the names 
they bore,) are words dear to France and familiar to our 
ears. 

But a course of circumstances, which it would be tedious 
to enumerate,* have deprived us of this magnificent inher- 
itance. Wherever the French settlers were numerically 
weak and partially established, they have disappeared : 

* The roremoat of th«M cinjumstances is, that natioiu vhirh arc accni- 
tomed to townahip initllattoiui u&gt;A mamcipal govemmcnt arc better tbls 
tbsn way others to foond prospérons colomea. The habit of thioking tad 
^reming for ono'a «elf ù indùpenuble in a new mnntrj, where soccen no- 
aaaiilj depends in b gte«t meagnre upon the indlTidiud e 
fcttoi. 



554 DEM(X-RACT IS AMEBICA. 

ttose who remain arc collecte! on a «mall extent of cotm* 
try, and are now subject to otii«r laws. Tlie 400,000 
Freuch inhabitants of Lower Canada constitute at the 
present time tJie remnant of an old nation lost in the 
mid^t of a new people, A foreign popnlation is increas- 
ing around them unceasingly and on all sides, who already 
penetrate amongst the former masters of the conntiy, pre- 
dominate in their cities, and corrupt their language. This 
population is identical with tliat of the United States ; it 
is therefore with truth that I asserted that the British rac« 
Is not confined within the frontiers of the Union, since it 
already extends to the northe«st, 

To tlie norlhwtst, nothing U to he met with hut a few 
insignificant Russian settlements ; but to the southwest, 
Mexico presents a barrier to the Anglo-Americans. Thus, 
the Spaniards and the Anglo-Americans are, properly 
speaking, the two races which diinde tlie possession of the 
New World. The fimits of separation between them have 
been settled by treaty ; but although the conditions of that 
treaty are favorable to the Anglo-Americans, I do not 
doubt that they will shortly infringe it. Vast provinces, 
extending beyond the frontiers of the Union towards Mex- 
ico, are still destitute of inhabitants. The natives of the 
United States will people these solitary regions before their 
rightful occupants. They will take possession of the soil, 
and establish social institutions, so that, when the legal 
owner at length arrives, lie will find the wOderness under 
cultivation, and strangers quietly settled in the midst of 
his inheritance. 

The lands of the New World belong to the first occu- 
pant ; they are the natural reward of the swiftest pioneer. 
Even the countries which are already peopled will have 
some difficulty in securing themselves from this invasion, 
I have already alluded to what is taking place in the prov- 
ince of Texas. T\ve mWUtaata of the United States are 



rOTiniE PSOSFECTS OP THE DNTTED STATES. 555 

perpetnallj migrating to Texas, where they purchase land ; 
and although tliey conform to the laws of the country, they 
are gradually founding the empire of tlieir own language 
and tlieir own manners." The province of Texas is still 
part of the Mexican dominions, but it will soon contain 
no Mexicans ; the same thing has occunred wherever the 
Anglo-Americans have come in contact with a people of a 
different origin. 

It cannot be denied that the British race has acquired an 
amazing prepondtirance over all other European races in 
the New World ; and it is very superior to them in civil- 
ization, industry, and power. As long as it is surrounded 
only by desert or thinly-peopled countries, as long as it 
encounters no dense population upon its route, through 
which it cannot work its way, it will assuredly continue to 
spread. The lines marked out by treaties will not stop it ; 
but it will everywhere overleap these imaginary barriers. 

The geographical position of the British race in the New 
World is peculiariy favorable to its rapid increase. Above 
its northern frontiers the icy regions of the Pole extend ; 
and a few degrees below its southern confines lies the burn- 
ing climate of the Equator. The Anglo-Americans are 
therefore placed in the most temperate and habitable zone 
of the continent. 

It is generally supposed that the prodigious increase of 
population in the United States is posterior to their Decla- 
ration of Independence. But this is an eiTor: the popu- 
lation increased as rapidly under the colonial system as at 
the present day ; that is to say, it doubled in about twenty- 
two years. But this proportion, which is now applied to 
millions, was then applied to thousands, of inhabitants ; 
and the same fact, which was scarcely noticeable a century 
ago, is now evident to every observer. 

* In lisB ilian ten jcan after De TocqueriUe mote, Uio konezatioii «f 
Texu fUUllIcd thii prophecy. — An. Ed. 



650 DEMOCRACY JS AMEiaCA. 

The English in Canada, wlio are dependent on a feinj 
tugmenl and spread almost as ra^iidly as tlie BriliHh suttlci» 
of the United States, who live under a rt-imblican govom- 
ment. Daring the war of Independence, which lotted 
eight years, the population continued to increase ivithoat 
interniUsion in the same ratio. Although powerful Indian 
nations allied with the Kngli&amp;h existed, at that ùm?, upon 
the western frontiers, the emigration westward was never 
cliecketl. Whilst the enemy laid waste the shores of the 
Atlantic, Kentucky, the western parta of Pennsylvania, 
and the States of Vermont and of- Maine, were filling with 
inhaljilarits. Nor did ihe unsettled state of things wliich 
succi'wii.'d tlio w:ir pn/vuiit thi? ini.TL'a^c of tin- ]iû]julMlion, 
or stop its progress across the wilds. Thus, tlie difference 
of laws, the various conditions of peace and war, of order 
or anarchy, have exercised no perceptible influence upon 
the continued development of the Anglo-Americans. This 
may be readily understood, for no causes are sufficiently 
general to exercise a simultaneons inâncnce over the whole 
of 'so extensive a territory. One portion of the country 
always offers a sure retreat from the calamities which oJSict 
another part ; and however great may be the evil, the 
remedy which is at hand is greater still. 

It must not, then, he imagined that the impulse of the 
British race in the New World can be arrested. The dis- 
memberment of the Union, and the hostilities which might 
ensue, the abolition of ropnblican institutions, and the ty- 
rannical government which might succeed, may retard this 
impulse, but they cannot prevent the people from ultimately 
fiilfilling their destinies. No power upon earth can shut 
out the emigrants from that fertile wilderness wliich offers 
resources to all industry, and a refuge from all want. Fu- 
ture events, whatever they may be, will not deprive the 
Americans of their clhnate or their inland seas, their great 
rivers or their exu\)erant soil. Nor will had laws, revo- 




FUTLT.E I'ROSPECTS OF THE UBITED STATES. 557 

auai'cliy he able to obliterate that love of 
1 spiiit of enterprbe which seem to be the 
Kstinctive characteristics of their race, or extinguish at 
' B knowledge which guides them on their way. 
e midst of the uncertain future, one event at 
3 sure. At a period which may be . said to be near, 
e speaking of the life of a nation, — the Anglo- 
Americans alone will cover the immense space contained 
between the {xttar regions and tlie tropics, extending from 
the coasts of the Atlantic to tliose of the Pacific Ocean. 
The territory wliich will probably be occupied by the 
Anglo-Americans may perhaps equal three quarters of 
Europe in extent. The climate of the Union is, upon tlie 
whole, preferable to that of Europe, and its natural advan- 
tages are as great ; it is therefore evident that its population 
will at some future time be proportionate to our own. En- 
rope, divided as it is between so many nations, and torn as 
it has been by incessant wars growing out of the barbarous 
manners of the Middle Ages, has yet attained a population 
of 410 inhabitants to the square league. What cause can 
prevent the United States &amp;om having as numerous a pop- 
ulation in time? 

Many ages must elapse before the different ofïsets of 
the British race in America will cease to present the same 
physiognomy j and the time cannot be foreseen at which a 
permanent inequality of condition can be established in the 
New Wortd. Whatever differences may arise, from peace 
or war, freedom or oppression, prosperity or want, between 
the destinies of the different descendants of the great An- 
glo-American family, they will all preserve at least a simi- 
lar social condition, and will hold in common the customs 
and opinions to which tliat social condition has given birth. 
In the Middle Ages, the tie of reh'gion was sufficiently 
powerful to nnite all the diffèrent populations of Europe 
in the same civilization. The British of the New World 



668 DEHOGSACfT IN AllEBIOA. 

have a thousand otiher reciprocal tiei; and they live at 
a time when the tendenqr to equality is general amongst 
mankind. The Middle Ages were a period when eyeij- 
thing was broken up, — when each people, each province, 
each city, and each fiunilj traded strongly to maintain its 
distinct individuality. At the present time, an opposite 
tendency seems to prevail, and the nations seem to be ad- 
vancing to unity. Our means of inteUectual intercourse 
unite the remotest parts of the earth ; and men cannot 
remain strangers to each other, or be ignorant of what is 
taking place in any comer of the globe. The consequence 
is, that there is less difference at the present day between 
the Europeans and their descendants in the New World, 
in spite of the ocean which divides them, than there was 
between certain towns in the thirteenth cetitury, which 
were separated only by a river. If this tendency to as- 
similation brings foreign nations closer to each otiier, it 
must a fortiori prevent the descendants of the same peo- 
* f pie from becoming aliens to each other. 
■^ The time will therefore come, when one hundred and 
y' fifty millions of men will be living in Nordi America,* 
y equal in condition, all bel onging to one family^ owing their 
*ï nrîjTÎn to the same cause, and preserving tlie same civiliza- 
tion, die same language, the sam e religion , the same liabits . 
the same manners, and imbued^ with the same^fi{û&amp;iûQ&amp; 
'^ propagated under the same forms. The rest is uncertain, 
but this is certain ; and it is a fact new to the world, — a 
.- ■ fiict which the imagination strives in vain to grasp. 

There are at the present time two great nations in the 
world, which started from different points, but seem to tend 
towards the same end. I allude to the Russians and the 
Americans. Both of them have grown up unnoticed ; 

* This would be a population proportionate to that of £arope, taken at a 
mean rate of 410 inhabitaata to the square league. 



FUTUBE PBOSPECTS 07 THE DSITED STATES. 



559 



and whilst the attention of mankind was directed else- 
where, they have suddenly placed themselves in the &amp;ont 
rank among the nations, and the world learned their esiab- 
ence and their greatness at almost the same dme. 

All other nations seem to have nearly reached their naU 
ural limits, and they have only to maintain their power ; 
but these are still in the act of. growth.* All the others 
have stopped, or continue to advance with extreme diffi- 
culty ; these alone are proceeding with ease and celerity 
along a path to which no limit can be perceived. The 
American struggles against the obstacles which nature op- 
poses to him; the adversaries of the Russian are men. 
The former combats the wilderness and savage life ; the 
latter, civihzation with all its arms. The conquests of the 
American are therefore gained by the ploughshare ; those 
of the Russian by the sword. The Anglo-American re- 
lies upon personal interest to accomplish his ends, and gives 
free scope to the unguided strength and common sense of 
Jie people ; the Russian centres all the authority of society 
in a single arm. The principal instrument of the former 
is freedom ; of the latter, servitude. Their starting-point 
is different, and their courses are not the same ; yet each 
of them seems marked out by the will of Heaven to sway 
the destinies of half the globe. 



V mote i^idl; thui that of anj othn 



END OF VOLUME L 




Cunbrfdi* l SLanot/p«d u 




'if 




THE BORROWER WILL BE CHARGED 
AN OVERDUE FEE IF THIS BOOK IS 
NOT RETURNED TO THE LIBRARY ON 
OR BEFORE THE LAST DATE STAMPED 
BELOW. NON-RECEIPT OF OVERDUE 
NOTICES DOES NOT EXEMPT THE 
BORROWER FROM OVERDUE FEES. 

Harvard College WIdener Library 
Cambridge, MA0213B (617)495-2413 




liiltll 



</pre>        </div><!--/.container-->
              </main>
    </div><!--/#wrap-->
    
    <!-- Timing ...
     rendered on: www14.us.archive.org
 seconds diff sec               message   stack(file:line:function)
=========================================================
  0.0000   0.0000         petabox start   var/cache/petabox/petabox/www/sf/download.php:1:require
                                             |common/ia:66:require_once
                                             |setup.php:310:log
  0.0100   0.0100      redis_read start   var/cache/petabox/petabox/www/sf/download.php:86:main_wrap
                                             |download.php:107:main
                                             |download.php:328:getItem
                                             |common/Item.inc:77:parseMetadata
                                             |Item.inc:132:get_obj
                                             |Metadata.inc:489:_get_obj
                                             |Metadata.inc:519:run_pipeline
                                             |Metadata.inc:1426:read
                                             |Metadata/AdapterPipeline.inc:259:_read
                                             |AdapterPipeline.inc:292:pipeline
                                             |AdapterPipeline.inc:377:fetch
                                             |AdapterPipeline.inc:608:fetch
                                             |RecordServer.inc:144:execute
                                             |RecordServer/FetchRecordOp.inc:52:log
  0.0139   0.0039     redis_read finish   var/cache/petabox/petabox/www/sf/download.php:86:main_wrap
                                             |download.php:107:main
                                             |download.php:328:getItem
                                             |common/Item.inc:77:parseMetadata
                                             |Item.inc:132:get_obj
                                             |Metadata.inc:489:_get_obj
                                             |Metadata.inc:519:run_pipeline
                                             |Metadata.inc:1426:read
                                             |Metadata/AdapterPipeline.inc:259:_read
                                             |AdapterPipeline.inc:292:pipeline
                                             |AdapterPipeline.inc:377:fetch
                                             |AdapterPipeline.inc:608:fetch
                                             |RecordServer.inc:144:execute
                                             |RecordServer/FetchRecordOp.inc:58:log
  0.0313   0.0174   begin session_start   var/cache/petabox/petabox/www/sf/download.php:86:main_wrap
                                             |download.php:107:main
                                             |download.php:542:stream
                                             |download.php:954:head
                                             |common/Nav.inc:121:__construct
                                             |Nav.inc:189:session_start
                                             |Cookies.inc:56:log
  0.0314   0.0001    done session_start   var/cache/petabox/petabox/www/sf/download.php:86:main_wrap
                                             |download.php:107:main
                                             |download.php:542:stream
                                             |download.php:954:head
                                             |common/Nav.inc:121:__construct
                                             |Nav.inc:189:session_start
                                             |Cookies.inc:62:log
  0.0375   0.0060      call get_redis()   var/cache/petabox/petabox/www/sf/download.php:86:main_wrap
                                             |download.php:107:main
                                             |download.php:542:stream
                                             |download.php:954:head
                                             |common/Nav.inc:121:__construct
                                             |Nav.inc:227:v2
                                             |Nav.inc:571:render
                                             |Banner.inc:59:get_public_banner
                                             |Banner.inc:20:get_obj_part
                                             |Metadata.inc:811:_get_obj_part
                                             |Metadata.inc:850:get_json_obj
                                             |Metadata.inc:2279:log
  0.0380   0.0006      redis_read start   var/cache/petabox/petabox/www/sf/download.php:86:main_wrap
                                             |download.php:107:main
                                             |download.php:542:stream
                                             |download.php:954:head
                                             |common/Nav.inc:121:__construct
                                             |Nav.inc:227:v2
                                             |Nav.inc:571:render
                                             |Banner.inc:59:get_public_banner
                                             |Banner.inc:20:get_obj_part
                                             |Metadata.inc:811:_get_obj_part
                                             |Metadata.inc:850:get_json_obj
                                             |Metadata.inc:2309:fetch
                                             |Metadata/RecordServer.inc:144:execute
                                             |RecordServer/FetchRecordOp.inc:52:log
  0.0437   0.0057     redis_read finish   var/cache/petabox/petabox/www/sf/download.php:86:main_wrap
                                             |download.php:107:main
                                             |download.php:542:stream
                                             |download.php:954:head
                                             |common/Nav.inc:121:__construct
                                             |Nav.inc:227:v2
                                             |Nav.inc:571:render
                                             |Banner.inc:59:get_public_banner
                                             |Banner.inc:20:get_obj_part
                                             |Metadata.inc:811:_get_obj_part
                                             |Metadata.inc:850:get_json_obj
                                             |Metadata.inc:2309:fetch
                                             |Metadata/RecordServer.inc:144:execute
                                             |RecordServer/FetchRecordOp.inc:58:log
  0.1858   0.1421              bug dump   var/cache/petabox/petabox/www/sf/download.php:86:main_wrap
                                             |download.php:107:main
                                             |download.php:542:stream
                                             |download.php:984:footer
                                             |common/setup.php:156:footer
                                             |Nav.inc:1426:dump
                                             |Bug.inc:102:log
    -->
    <script type="text/javascript">
if (window.archive_analytics) {
  var vs = window.archive_analytics.get_data_packets();
  for (var i in vs) {
    vs[i]['cache_bust']=Math.random();
    vs[i]['server_ms']=185;
    vs[i]['server_name']="www14.us.archive.org";
      }

  if ($(".more_search").size()>0) {
    window.archive_analytics.send_scroll_fetch_base_event();
  }
}
</script>
      </div>
  </body>
</html>
    
